Exploring the Attack Surface of Blockchain: A Comprehensive Survey
In this paper, we systematically explore the attack surface of the Blockchain technology, with an emphasis on public Blockchains. Towards this goal, we attribute attack viability in the attack surface to 1) the Blockchain cryptographic constructs, 2) the distributed architecture of the systems using Blockchain, and 3) the Blockchain application context. To each of those contributing factors, we outline several attacks, including selfish mining, the 51% attack, DNS attacks, distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks, consensus delay (due to selfish behavior or distributed denial-of-service attacks), Blockchain forks, orphaned and stale blocks, block ingestion, wallet thefts, smart contract attacks, and privacy attacks. We also explore the causal relationships between these attacks to demonstrate how various attack vectors are connected to one another. A secondary contribution of this work is outlining effective defense measures taken by the Blockchain technology or proposed by researchers to mitigate the effects of these attacks and patch associated vulnerabilities.

AMAL: High-fidelity, behavior-based automated malware analysis and classification
XMSS: eXtended Merkle Signature Scheme
This note describes the eXtended Merkle Signature Scheme (XMSS), a
hash-based digital signature system. It follows existing descriptions
in scientific literature. The note specifies the WOTS+ one-time
signature scheme, a single-tree (XMSS) and a multi-tree variant
(XMSS^MT) of XMSS. Both variants use WOTS+ as a main building block.
XMSS provides cryptographic digital signatures without relying on the
conjectured hardness of mathematical problems. Instead, it is proven
that it only relies on the properties of cryptographic hash functions.
XMSS provides strong security guarantees and is even secure when the
collision resistance of the underlying hash function is broken. It is
suitable for compact implementations, relatively simple to implement,
and naturally resists side-channel attacks. Unlike most other
signature systems, hash-based signatures can withstand so far known
attacks using quantum computers.

Measuring the Mixing Time of Social Graphs
Social networks provide interesting algorithmic properties that can be used to bootstrap the security of distributed systems. For example, it is widely believed that social networks are fast mixing, and many recently proposed designs of such systems make crucial use of this property. However, whether real-world social networks are really fast mixing is not verified before, and this could potentially affect the performance of such systems based on the fast mixing property. To address this problem, we measure the mixing time of several social graphs, the time that it takes a random walk on the graph to approach the stationary distribution of that graph, using two techniques. First, we use the second largest eigenvalue modulus which bounds the mixing time. Second, we sample initial distributions and compute the random walk length required to achieve probability distributions close to the stationary distribution. Our findings show that the mixing time of social graphs is much larger than anticipated, and being used in literature, and this implies that either the current security systems based on fast mixing have weaker utility guarantees or have to be less efficient, with less security guarantees, in order to compensate for the slower mixing.

Toward Characterizing Blockchain-Based Cryptocurrencies for Highly Accurate Predictions
Recently, the Blockchain-based cryptocurrency market witnessed enormous growth. Bitcoin, the leading cryptocurrency, reached all-time highs many times over the year leading to speculations to explain the trend in its growth. In this article, we study Bitcoin and Ethereum and explore features in their network that explain their price hikes. We gather data and analyze user and network activity that highly impact the price of these cryptocurrencies. We monitor the change in the activities over time and relate them to economic theories. We identify key network features that help us to determine the demand and supply dynamics in a cryptocurrency. Finally, we use machine learning methods to construct models that predict Bitcoin price. Based on our experimental results using two large datasets for validation, we confirm that our approach provides an accuracy of up to 99% for Bitcoin and Ethereum price prediction in both instances.

Delving into Internet DDoS Attacks by Botnets: Characterization and Analysis
Internet Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) at- tacks are prevalent but hard to defend against, partially due to the volatility of the attacking methods and patterns used by attackers. Understanding the latest DDoS attacks can provide new insights for effective defense. But most of existing understandings are based on indirect traffic measures (e.g., backscatters) or traffic seen locally. In this study, we present an in-depth analysis based on 50,704 different Internet DDoS attacks directly observed in a seven-month period. These attacks were launched by 674 botnets from 23 different botnet families with a total of 9,026 victim IPs belonging to 1,074 organizations in 186 countries. Our analysis reveals several interesting findings about today's Internet DDoS attacks. Some highlights include: (1) geolocation analysis shows that the geospatial distribution of the attacking sources follows certain patterns, which enables very accurate source prediction of future attacks for most active botnet families, (2) from the target perspective, multiple attacks to the same target also exhibit strong patterns of inter-attack time interval, allowing accurate start time prediction of the next anticipated attacks from certain botnet families, (3) there is a trend for different botnets to launch DDoS attacks targeting the same victim, simultaneously or in turn. These findings add to the existing literature on the understanding of today's Internet DDoS attacks, and offer new insights for designing new defense schemes at different levels.

Detecting and classifying android malware using static analysis along with creator information
Thousands of malicious applications targeting mobile devices, including the popular Android platform, are created every day. A large number of those applications are created by a small number of professional underground actors; however previous studies overlooked such information as a feature in detecting and classifying malware and in attributing malware to creators. Guided by this insight, we propose a method to improve the performance of Android malware detection by incorporating the creator's information as a feature and classify malicious applications into similar groups. We developed a system that implements this method in practice. Our system enables fast detection of malware by using creator information such as serial number of certificate. Additionally, it analyzes malicious behaviors and permissions to increase detection accuracy. The system also can classify malware based on similarity scoring. Finally, we showed detection and classification performance with 98% and 90% accuracy, respectively.

Sensor-Based Continuous Authentication of Smartphones' Users Using Behavioral Biometrics: A Contemporary Survey
Mobile devices and technologies have become increasingly popular, offering comparable storage and computational capabilities to desktop computers allowing users to store and interact with sensitive and private information. The security and protection of such personal information are becoming more and more important since mobile devices are vulnerable to unauthorized access or theft. User authentication is a task of paramount importance that grants access to legitimate users at the point of entry and continuously through the usage session. This task is made possible with today’s smartphones’ embedded sensors that enable continuous and implicit user authentication by capturing behavioral biometrics and traits. In this article, we survey more than 140 recent behavioral biometric-based approaches for continuous user authentication, including motion-based methods (28 studies), gait-based methods (19 studies), keystroke dynamics-based methods (20 studies), touch gesture-based methods (29 studies), voice-based methods (16 studies), and multimodal-based methods (34 studies). The survey provides an overview of the current state-of-the-art approaches for continuous user authentication using behavioral biometrics captured by smartphones’ embedded sensors, including insights and open challenges for adoption, usability, and performance.

Keep your friends close: Incorporating trust into social network-based Sybil defenses
Social network-based Sybil defenses exploit the algorithmic properties of social graphs to infer the extent to which an arbitrary node in such a graph should be trusted. However, these systems do not consider the different amounts of trust represented by different graphs, and different levels of trust between nodes, though trust is being a crucial requirement in these systems. For instance, co-authors in an academic collaboration graph are trusted in a different manner than social friends. Furthermore, some social friends are more trusted than others. However, previous designs for social network-based Sybil defenses have not considered the inherent trust properties of the graphs they use. In this paper we introduce several designs to tune the performance of Sybil defenses by accounting for differential trust in social graphs and modeling these trust values by biasing random walks performed on these graphs. Surprisingly, we find that the cost function, the required length of random walks to accept all honest nodes with overwhelming probability, is much greater in graphs with high trust values, such as co-author graphs, than in graphs with low trust values such as online social networks. We show that this behavior is due to the community structure in high-trust graphs, requiring longer walk to traverse multiple communities. Furthermore, we show that our proposed designs to account for trust, while increase the cost function of graphs with low trust value, decrease the advantage of attacker.

Losing Control of the Internet: Using the Data Plane to Attack the Control Plane
In this work, we introduce the Coordinated Cross Plane Session Termination, or CXPST, attack, a distributed denial of service attack that attacks the control plane of the Internet. CXPST extends previous work that demonstrates a vulnerability in routers that allows an adversary to disconnect a pair of routers using only data plane traffic. By carefully choosing BGP sessions to terminate, CXPST generates a surge of BGP updates that are seen by nearly all core routers on the Internet. This surge of updates surpasses the computational capacity of affected routers, crippling their ability to make routing decisions

You Can Hear But You Cannot Steal: Defending against Voice Impersonation Attacks on Smartphones
Voice, as a convenient and efficient way of information delivery, has a significant advantage over the conventional keyboard-based input methods, especially on small mobile devices such as smartphones and smartwatches. However, the human voice could often be exposed to the public, which allows an attacker to quickly collect sound samples of targeted victims and further launch voice impersonation attacks to spoof those voice-based applications. In this paper, we propose the design and implementation of a robust software-only voice impersonation defense system, which is tailored for mobile platforms and can be easily integrated with existing off-the-shelf smart devices. In our system, we explore magnetic field emitted from loudspeakers as the essential characteristic for detecting machine-based voice impersonation attacks. Furthermore, we use a state-of-the-art automatic speaker verification system to defend against human imitation attacks. Finally, our evaluation results show that our system achieves simultaneously high accuracy (100%) and low equal error rates (EERs) (0%) in detecting the machine-based voice impersonation attack on smartphones.

Analyzing and Detecting Emerging Internet of Things Malware: A Graph-based Approach
The steady growth in the number of deployed Internet of Things (IoT) devices has been paralleled with an equal growth in the number of malicious software (malware) targeting those devices. In this paper, we build a detection mechanism of IoT malware utilizing control flow graphs (CFGs). To motivate for our detection mechanism, we contrast the underlying characteristics of IoT malware to other types of malware—Android malware, which are also Linux-based—across multiple features. The preliminary analyses reveal that the Android malware have high density, strong closeness and betweenness, and a larger number of nodes. We show that IoT malware samples have a large number of edges despite a smaller number of nodes, which demonstrate a richer flow structure and higher complexity. We utilize those various characterizing features as a modality to build a highly effective deep learning-based detection model to detect IoT malware. To test our model, we use CFGs of about 6000 malware and benign IoT disassembled samples, and show a detection accuracy of $\approx 99.66$ %.

AV-Meter: An Evaluation of Antivirus Scans and Labels
AUToSen: Deep-Learning-Based Implicit Continuous Authentication Using Smartphone Sensors
Smartphones have become crucial for our daily life activities and are increasingly loaded with our personal information to perform several sensitive tasks, including, mobile banking and communication, and are used for storing private photos and files. Therefore, there is a high demand for applying usable authentication techniques that prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information. In this article, we propose AUToSen, a deep-learning-based active authentication approach that exploits sensors in consumer-grade smartphones to authenticate a user. Unlike conventional approaches, AUToSen is based on deep learning to identify user distinct behavior from the embedded sensors with and without the user’s interaction with the smartphone. We investigate different deep learning architectures in modeling and capturing users’ behavioral patterns for the purpose of authentication. Moreover, we explore the sufficiency of sensory data required to accurately authenticate users. We evaluate AUToSen on a real-world data set that includes sensors data of 84 participants’ smartphones collected using our designed data-collection application. The experiments show that AUToSen operates accurately using readings of only three sensors (accelerometer, gyroscope, and magnetometer) with a high authentication frequency, e.g., one authentication attempt every 0.5 s. Using sensory data of one second enables an authentication F1-score of approximately 98%, false acceptance rate (FAR) of 0.95%, false rejection rate (FRR) of 6.67%, and equal error rate (EER) of 0.41%. While using sensory data of half a second enables an authentication F1-score of 97.52%, FAR of 0.96%, FRR of 8.08%, and EER of 0.09%. Moreover, we investigate the effects of using different sensory data at variable sampling periods on the performance of the authentication models under various settings and learning architectures.

A Survey on Deep Packet Inspection for Intrusion Detection Systems
Deep packet inspection is widely recognized as a powerful way which is used for intrusion detection systems for inspecting, deterring and deflecting malicious attacks over the network. Fundamentally, almost intrusion detection systems have the ability to search through packets and identify contents that match with known attacks. In this paper, we survey the deep packet inspection implementations techniques, research challenges and algorithms. Finally, we provide a comparison between the different applied systems.

Unveiling Zeus: Automated classification of malware samples
Malware family classification is an age old problem that many Anti-Virus (AV) companies have tackled. There are two common techniques used for classification, signature based and behavior based. Signature based classification uses a common sequence of bytes that appears in the binary code to identify and detect a family of malware. Behavior based classification uses artifacts created by malware during execution for identification. In this paper we report on a unique dataset we obtained from our operations and classified using several machine learning techniques using the behavior-based approach. Our main class of malware we are interested in classifying is the popular Zeus malware. For its classification we identify 65 features that are unique and robust for identifying malware families. We show that artifacts like file system, registry, and network features can be used to identify distinct malware families with high accuracy - in some cases as high as 95 percent.

Cooperative multiagent deep reinforcement learning for reliable surveillance via autonomous multi-UAV control
CCTV-based surveillance using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) is considered a key technology for security in smart city environments.This article creates a case where the UAVs with CCTV-cameras fly over the city area for flexible and reliable surveillance services. UAVs should be deployed to cover a large area while minimizing overlapping and shadow areas for a reliable surveillance system. However, the operation of UAVs is subject to high uncertainty, necessitating autonomous recovery systems. This article develops a multiagent deep reinforcement learning-based management scheme for reliable industry surveillance in smart city applications. The core idea this article employs is autonomously replenishing the UAV’s deficient network requirements with communications. Via intensive simulations, our proposed algorithm outperforms the state-of-the-art algorithms in terms of surveillance coverage, user support capability, and computational costs.

Large-Scale and Language-Oblivious Code Authorship Identification
Efficient extraction of code authorship attributes is key for successful identification. However, the extraction of such attributes is very challenging, due to various programming language specifics, the limited number of available code samples per author, and the average code lines per file, among others. To this end, this work proposes a Deep Learning-based Code Authorship Identification System (DL-CAIS) for code authorship attribution that facilitates large-scale, language-oblivious, and obfuscation-resilient code authorship identification. The deep learning architecture adopted in this work includes TF-IDF-based deep representation using multiple Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) layers and fully-connected layers dedicated to authorship attribution learning. The deep representation then feeds into a random forest classifier for scalability to de-anonymize the author. Comprehensive experiments are conducted to evaluate DL-CAIS over the entire Google Code Jam (GCJ) dataset across all years (from 2008 to 2016) and over real-world code samples from 1987 public repositories on GitHub. The results of our work show the high accuracy despite requiring a smaller number of files per author. Namely, we achieve an accuracy of 96% when experimenting with 1,600 authors for GCJ, and 94.38% for the real-world dataset for 745 C programmers. Our system also allows us to identify 8,903 authors, the largest-scale dataset used by far, with an accuracy of 92.3%. Moreover, our technique is resilient to language-specifics, and thus it can identify authors of four programming languages (e.g. C, C++, Java, and Python), and authors writing in mixed languages (e.g. Java/C++, Python/C++). Finally, our system is resistant to sophisticated obfuscation (e.g. using C Tigress) with an accuracy of 93.42% for a set of 120 authors.

