An unsupervised anomaly-based detection approach for integrity attacks on SCADA systems
An efficient data-driven clustering technique to detect attacks in SCADA systems
Supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems have become a salient part in controlling critical infrastructures, such as power plants, energy grids, and water distribution systems. In the past decades, these systems were isolated and use proprietary software, operating systems, and protocols. In recent years, SCADA systems have been interfaced with enterprise systems, which therefore exposed them to the vulnerabilities of the Internet and the security threats. Traditional security solutions (e.g., firewalls, antivirus software, and intrusion detection systems) cannot fully protect SCADA systems, because they have different requirements. This paper presents an innovative intrusion detection approach to detect SCADA tailored attacks. This is based on a data-driven clustering technique of process parameters, which automatically identifies the normal and critical states of a given system. Later, it extracts proximity-based detection rules from the identified states for monitoring purposes. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is tested by conducting experiments on eight data sets that consist of process parameters' values. The empirical results demonstrated an average accuracy of 98% in automatically identifying the critical states, while facilitating the monitoring of the SCADA system.

SCADAVT-A framework for SCADA security testbed based on virtualization technology
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems monitor and control infrastructures and industrial processes such as smart grid power and water distribution systems. Recently, such systems have been attacked, and traditional security solutions have failed to provide an appropriate level of protection. Therefore, it is important to develop security solutions tailored to SCADA systems. However, it is impractical to evaluate such solutions on actual live systems. This paper proposes a SCADA security testbed based on virtualization technology, and introduces a server which is used as a surrogate for water distribution systems. In addition, this paper presents a case study of two malicious attacks to demonstrate how the testbed can easily monitor and control any automatised processes, and also to show how malicious attacks can disrupt supervised processes.

An optimal and stable feature selection approach for traffic classification based on multi-criterion fusion
Redundancy coefficient gradual up-weighting-based mutual information feature selection technique for crypto-ransomware early detection
A taxonomy of supervised learning for idss in scada environments
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems play an important role in monitoring industrial processes such as electric power distribution, transport systems, water distribution, and wastewater collection systems. Such systems require a particular attention with regards to security aspects, as they deal with critical infrastructures that are crucial to organizations and countries. Protecting SCADA systems from intrusion is a very challenging task because they do not only inherit traditional IT security threats but they also include additional vulnerabilities related to field components (e.g., cyber-physical attacks). Many of the existing intrusion detection techniques rely on supervised learning that consists of algorithms that are first trained with reference inputs to learn specific information, and then tested on unseen inputs for classification purposes. This article surveys supervised learning from a specific security angle, namely SCADA-based intrusion detection. Based on a systematic review process, existing literature is categorized and evaluated according to SCADA-specific requirements. Additionally, this survey reports on well-known SCADA datasets and testbeds used with machine learning methods. Finally, we present key challenges and our recommendations for using specific supervised methods for SCADA systems.

NNVWC: An Efficient-Nearest Neighbors Approach Based on Various-Widths Clustering
The approximate k-NN search algorithms are well-known for their high concert in high dimensional data. The locality-sensitive hashing (LSH) method, that uses a number of hash functions, is one of the most fascinating hash-based approaches. The k-nearest neighbour approaches based Various-Widths Clustering (kNNVWC) has been widely used as a prevailing non-parametric technique in many scientific and engineering applications. However, this approach incurs a huge pre-processing and the querying cost. Hence, this issue has become an active explore field. The proposed system presents a novel k-NN based Partitioning Around Medoids (KNNPAM) clustering algorithm to powerfully find k-NNs for a query object from a given data set to minimize the extend beyond among clusters; and grouping the centers of the clusters into a tree-like index to effectively trim more clusters. Experimental results demonstrate that KNNPAM perform well in finding k-NNs for query objects compared to a number of k-NN search algorithms, mainly for a banking domain and real world data set with high dimensions, various distributions and large size. The problem of quickly finding the “exact” k-NN for a query object in a large and high dimensional data set using metric reserve functions that satisfy the triangle inequality property.KD-tree: To organization the data set in a balanced binary-tree, where the data set is recursively split into two parts along one axis .

PPFSCADA: Privacy preserving framework for SCADA data publishing
Managing security of healthcare data for a modern healthcare system
The advent of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT) have recently created previously unimaginable opportunities for boosting clinical and patient services, reducing costs and improving community health. Yet, a fundamental challenge that the modern healthcare management system faces is storing and securely transferring data. Therefore, this research proposes a novel Lionized remora optimization-based serpent (LRO-S) encryption method to encrypt sensitive data and reduce privacy breaches and cyber-attacks from unauthorized users and hackers. The LRO-S method is the combination of hybrid metaheuristic optimization and improved security algorithm. The fitness functions of lion and remora are combined to create a new algorithm for security key generation, which is provided to the serpent encryption algorithm. The LRO-S technique encrypts sensitive patient data before storing it in the cloud. The primary goal of this study is to improve the safety and adaptability of medical professionals’ access to cloud-based patient-sensitive data more securely. The experiment’s findings suggest that the secret keys generated are sufficiently random and one of a kind to provide adequate protection for the data stored in modern healthcare management systems. The proposed method minimizes the time needed to encrypt and decrypt data and improves privacy standards. This study found that the suggested technique outperformed previous techniques in terms of reducing execution time and is cost-effective.

An IoT based system for magnify air pollution monitoring and prognosis using hybrid artificial intelligence technique
Integrating blockchain technology into healthcare through an intelligent computing technique
: The blockchain technology plays a significant role in the present era of information technology. In the last few years, this technology has been used effectively in several domains. It has already made significant differences in human life, as well as is intended to have noticeable impact in many other domains in the forthcoming years. The rapid growth in blockchain technology has created numerous new possibilities for use, especially for healthcare applications. The digital healthcare services require highly effective security methodologies that can integrate data security with the available management strategies. To test and understand this goal of security management in Saudi Arabian perspective, the authors performed a numerical analysis and simulation through a multi criteria decision making approach in this study. The authors adopted the fuzzy Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) for evaluating the effectiveness and then applied the fuzzy Technique for Order of Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) technique to simulate the validation of results. For eliciting highly corroborative and conclusive results, the study referred to a real time project of diabetes patients’ management application of Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA). The results discussed in this paper are scientifically proven and validated through various analysis approaches. Hence the present study can be a credible basis for other similar endeavours being undertaken in the domain of blockchain research.

Utilizing artificial neural network for prediction of occupants thermal comfort: A case study of a test room fitted with a thermoelectric air-conditioning system
Subjective analysis of thermal comfort of occupants relates to the recording of the level of satisfaction or dissatisfaction of occupants with regard to indoor environmental conditions on a scale which ranges from −5 to +5. This requires recruitment of subjects and matching for gender, age etc. In this study, we have tried to predict the thermal comfort of occupants by observing their real behavior inside the test room fitted with a novel thermoelectric air duct (TE-AD) cooling system rather than a conventional air conditioning system. Firstly, real experimental data were collected for more than two months from the test room equipped with the TE-AD cooling system operated at an input power supply of 6 A and 5 V. After that, the ANN model was developed based on the Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm by taking experimental parameters such as air temperature, relative humidity, globe temperature, wind speed, metabolic rate, and clothing value as model input. The ANN model is optimized by developing different models with different data points as a starting input in the training and validation process. The neuron optimization has been carried out in these models to minimize the mean square error (MSE) for the ANN model. The result shows that among the three models M1, M2, and M3, the optimum predictive mean value (PMV) was obtained from M1 at 10 neurons with MSE of 0.07956, while for predicted percentage dissatisfied (PPD), M3 gives optimum accuracy at 10 neurons with MSE value of 5.1789. The ANN model is then generalized to predict thermal comfort for one week and then for one month. Finally, all the model results were validated with the experimental data.

A framework for improving the accuracy of unsupervised intrusion detection for SCADA systems
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems are a salient part of the control and monitoring of critical infrastructures such as electricity generation, distribution, water treatment and distribution, and gas and oil production. Recently, such systems have increased their connectivity by using public networks and standard protocols (e.g. TCP/IP). However, while enhancing productivity, this will expose these systems to cyber threat. This is because many widely-used protocols in these systems such as MODBUS, DNP3 and EtherNET/IP are lacking authentication, and therefore command injection and data injection are potential threat. An unsupervised intrusion detection technique (with unlabelled data) is an appropriate method to address this issue because labelling the huge amount of data produced by such systems is a costly and time-consuming process. However, unsupervised learning algorithms suffer from low detection accuracy. This paper proposes a framework that can be used as an add-on component for any unsupervised approach to improve its performance. Experimental results confirm that the framework demonstrated a significant improvement in three unsupervised intrusion detection algorithms.

An IoT-based thermoelectric air management framework for smart building applications: a case study for tropical climate
This study investigates the performance of the thermoelectric air conditioning (TE-AC) system smartly controlled by the Internet of Things (IoT)-based configuration for real tropical climatic application. Air cooling management was done through thermoelectric coolers, and an Arduino microcontroller with various sensors such as a temperature sensor, simple RF modules, and actuators was used to control the indoor climatic conditions based on outdoor conditions. The result shows that when the input power supply to the IoT-based TE-AC system is increased, the cooling capacity of the framework is also enhanced. Significant power and carbon emission reduction was observed for the IoT-based TE-AC system as compared to the TE-AC system without IoT. The IoT-incorporated system also ensures better microclimatic temperature control. Additionally, the system cooling capacity improves by 14.0%, and the coefficient of performance is increased by 46.3%. Thus, this study provides a smart solution to the two major energy harvesting issues of traditional air conditioners—an increase in energy efficiency by employing a TE-AC system and a further improvement in efficiency by using an IoT-based thermal management system.

SemTra: A semi-supervised approach to traffic flow labeling with minimal human effort
Arithmetic optimization algorithm with deep learning enabled airborne particle-bound metals size prediction model
Cyber security analysis and evaluation for intrusion detection systems
Hesitant fuzzy-sets based decision-making model for security risk assessment
: Security is an important component in the process of developing healthcare web applications. We need to ensure security maintenance; therefore the analysis of healthcare web application’s security risk is of utmost importance. Properties must be considered to minimise the security risk. Additionally, security risk management activities are revised, prepared, implemented, tracked, and regularly set up efficiently to design the security of healthcare web applications. Managing the security risk of a healthcare web application must be considered as the key component. Security is, in specific, seen as an add-on during the development process of healthcare web applications, but not as the key problem. Researchers must ensure that security is taken into account right from the earlier developmental stages of the healthcare web application. In this row, the authors of this study have used the hesitant fuzzy-based AHP-TOPSIS technique to estimate the risks of various healthcare web applications for improving security-durability. This approach would help to design and incorporate security features in healthcare web applications that would be able to battle threats on their own, and not depend solely on the external security of healthcare web applications. Furthermore, in terms of healthcare web application’s security-durability, the security risk variable is measured, and vice versa. Hence, the findings of our study will also be useful in improving the durability of several web applications in healthcare.

Deep Kalman neuro fuzzy-based adaptive broadcasting scheme for vehicular ad hoc network: A context-aware approach
Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks (VANETs) are among the main enablers for future Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSs) as they facilitate information sharing, which improves road safety, traffic efficiency, and provides passengers’ comfort. Due to the dynamic nature of VANETs, vehicles need to exchange the Cooperative Awareness Messages (CAMs) more frequently to maintain network agility and preserve applications’ performance. However, in many situations, broadcasting at a high rate leads to congest the communication channel, rendering VANET unreliable. Existing broadcasting schemes designed for VANET use partial context variables to control the broadcasting rate. Additionally, CAMs uncertainty, which is context-dependent has been neglected and a predefined fixed certainty threshold has been used instead, which is not suitable for the highly dynamic context. Consequently, vehicles disseminate a high rate of unnecessary CAMs which degrades VANET performance. A good broadcasting scheme should accurately determine which and when CAMs are broadcasted. To this end, this study proposes a Context-Aware Adaptive Cooperative Awareness Messages Broadcasting Scheme (CA-ABS) using combinations of Adaptive Kalman Filter, Autoregression, and Sequential Deep Learning and Fuzzy inference system. Four context variables have been used to represent the vehicular context, namely, individual driving behaviors, CAMs uncertainty, vehicle density, and traffic flow. Kalman Filter and Autoregression are used to estimate and predict the CAMs messages respectively. The deep learning model has been constructed to estimate the CAMs’ uncertainties which is an important context variable that has been neglected in the previous research. Fuzzy Inference System takes context variables as input and determines an accurate broadcasting threshold and broadcasting interval. Extensive simulations have been conducted to evaluate the proposed scheme. Results show that the proposed scheme improves the CAMs delivery ratio and decreases the CAMs prediction errors.

Experimental study of a thermoelectric air duct dehumidification system for tropical climate
Abstract Water scarcity is the biggest survival challenge for the current generation, and atmospheric water condensation can be a solution. This paper presents the results of a numerical and experimental evaluation of a novel thermoelectric air duct dehumidifier system (TE-ADD) installed on a test chamber. The subject system, made of twenty-four thermoelectric modules along with heat sinks and fans, was used to produce freshwater by extracting moisture from ambient air. The performance of the system was evaluated as a function of the input power and the airflow rate. The results show that the water condensate production increases and the optimal value is achieved for an input power to the TE-ADD system of 6 A at 5 V. A further increase of the input power adversely affects the performance of the system. The condensate production also depends on the flow rate of the air. The optimal flow rate of air at an input current of 5 A and 6 A is 0.011 kg/s. Thus, this system solves two critical environmental issues, i.e., decrease of the thermal load and freshwater production, simultaneously.

DONE