Topic modeling in embedding spaces
Abstract Topic modeling analyzes documents to learn meaningful patterns of words. However, existing topic models fail to learn interpretable topics when working with large and heavy-tailed vocabularies. To this end, we develop the embedded topic model (etm), a generative model of documents that marries traditional topic models with word embeddings. More specifically, the etm models each word with a categorical distribution whose natural parameter is the inner product between the word’s embedding and an embedding of its assigned topic. To fit the etm, we develop an efficient amortized variational inference algorithm. The etm discovers interpretable topics even with large vocabularies that include rare words and stop words. It outperforms existing document models, such as latent Dirichlet allocation, in terms of both topic quality and predictive performance.

Edward: A library for probabilistic modeling, inference, and criticism
Probabilistic modeling is a powerful approach for analyzing empirical information. We describe Edward, a library for probabilistic modeling. Edward's design reflects an iterative process pioneered by George Box: build a model of a phenomenon, make inferences about the model given data, and criticize the model's fit to the data. Edward supports a broad class of probabilistic models, efficient algorithms for inference, and many techniques for model criticism. The library builds on top of TensorFlow to support distributed training and hardware such as GPUs. Edward enables the development of complex probabilistic models and their algorithms at a massive scale.

Topicrnn: A recurrent neural network with long-range semantic dependency
In this paper, we propose TopicRNN, a recurrent neural network (RNN)-based language model designed to directly capture the global semantic meaning relating words in a document via latent topics. Because of their sequential nature, RNNs are good at capturing the local structure of a word sequence – both semantic and syntactic – but might face difficulty remembering long-range dependencies. Intuitively, these long-range dependencies are of semantic nature. In contrast, latent topic models are able to capture the global underlying semantic structure of a document but do not account for word ordering. The proposed TopicRNN model integrates the merits of RNNs and latent topic models: it captures local (syntactic) dependencies using an RNN and global (semantic) dependencies using latent topics. Unlike previous work on contextual RNN language modeling, our model is learned end-to-end. Empirical results on word prediction show that TopicRNN outperforms existing contextual RNN baselines. In addition, TopicRNN can be used as an unsupervised feature extractor for documents. We do this for sentiment analysis and report a new state-of-the-art error rate on the IMDB movie review dataset that amounts to a 13.3% improvement over the previous best result. Finally TopicRNN also yields sensible topics, making it a useful alternative to document models such as latent Dirichlet allocation.

Avoiding Latent Variable Collapse with Generative Skip Models
Variational autoencoders learn distributions of high-dimensional data. They model data with a deep latent-variable model and then fit the model by maximizing a lower bound of the log marginal likelihood. VAEs can capture complex distributions, but they can also suffer from an issue known as "latent variable collapse," especially if the likelihood model is powerful. Specifically, the lower bound involves an approximate posterior of the latent variables; this posterior "collapses" when it is set equal to the prior, i.e., when the approximate posterior is independent of the data. While VAEs learn good generative models, latent variable collapse prevents them from learning useful representations. In this paper, we propose a simple new way to avoid latent variable collapse by including skip connections in our generative model; these connections enforce strong links between the latent variables and the likelihood function. We study generative skip models both theoretically and empirically. Theoretically, we prove that skip models increase the mutual information between the observations and the inferred latent variables. Empirically, we study images (MNIST and Omniglot) and text (Yahoo). Compared to existing VAE architectures, we show that generative skip models maintain similar predictive performance but lead to less collapse and provide more meaningful representations of the data.

Variational Inference via  Upper Bound Minimization
Variational inference (VI) is widely used as an efficient alternative to Markov chain Monte Carlo. It posits a family of approximating distributions q and finds the closest member to the exact posterior p. Closeness is usually measured via a divergence D(q||p) from q to p. While successful, this approach also has problems. Notably, it typically leads to underestimation of the posterior variance. In this paper we propose CHIVI, a black-box variational inference algorithm that minimizes Dχ(p||q), the χ-divergence from p to q. CHIVI minimizes an upper bound of the model evidence, which we term the χ upper bound (CUBO). Minimizing the CUBO leads to improved posterior uncertainty, and it can also be used with the classical VI lower bound (ELBO) to provide a sandwich estimate of the model evidence. We study CHIVI on three models: probit regression, Gaussian process classification, and a Cox process model of basketball plays. When compared to expectation propagation and classical VI, CHIVI produces better error rates and more accurate estimates of posterior variance.

Readmission prediction via deep contextual embedding of clinical concepts
Objective Hospital readmission costs a lot of money every year. Many hospital readmissions are avoidable, and excessive hospital readmissions could also be harmful to the patients. Accurate prediction of hospital readmission can effectively help reduce the readmission risk. However, the complex relationship between readmission and potential risk factors makes readmission prediction a difficult task. The main goal of this paper is to explore deep learning models to distill such complex relationships and make accurate predictions. Materials and methods We propose CONTENT, a deep model that predicts hospital readmissions via learning interpretable patient representations by capturing both local and global contexts from patient Electronic Health Records (EHR) through a hybrid Topic Recurrent Neural Network (TopicRNN) model. The experiment was conducted using the EHR of a real world Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) cohort of 5,393 patients. Results The proposed model outperforms state-of-the-art methods in readmission prediction (e.g. 0.6103 ± 0.0130 vs. second best 0.5998 ± 0.0124 in terms of ROC-AUC). The derived patient representations were further utilized for patient phenotyping. The learned phenotypes provide more precise understanding of readmission risks. Discussion Embedding both local and global context in patient representation not only improves prediction performance, but also brings interpretable insights of understanding readmission risks for heterogeneous chronic clinical conditions. Conclusion This is the first of its kind model that integrates the power of both conventional deep neural network and the probabilistic generative models for highly interpretable deep patient representation learning. Experimental results and case studies demonstrate the improved performance and interpretability of the model.

The dynamic embedded topic model
Topic modeling analyzes documents to learn meaningful patterns of words. For documents collected in sequence, dynamic topic models capture how these patterns vary over time. We develop the dynamic embedded topic model (D-ETM), a generative model of documents that combines dynamic latent Dirichlet allocation (D-LDA) and word embeddings. The D-ETM models each word with a categorical distribution parameterized by the inner product between the word embedding and a per-time-step embedding representation of its assigned topic. The D-ETM learns smooth topic trajectories by defining a random walk prior over the embedding representations of the topics. We fit the D-ETM using structured amortized variational inference with a recurrent neural network. On three different corpora---a collection of United Nations debates, a set of ACL abstracts, and a dataset of Science Magazine articles---we found that the D-ETM outperforms D-LDA on a document completion task. We further found that the D-ETM learns more diverse and coherent topics than D-LDA while requiring significantly less time to fit.

Prescribed generative adversarial networks
Generative adversarial networks (GANs) are a powerful approach to unsupervised learning. They have achieved state-of-the-art performance in the image domain. However, GANs are limited in two ways. They often learn distributions with low support---a phenomenon known as mode collapse---and they do not guarantee the existence of a probability density, which makes evaluating generalization using predictive log-likelihood impossible. In this paper, we develop the prescribed GAN (PresGAN) to address these shortcomings. PresGANs add noise to the output of a density network and optimize an entropy-regularized adversarial loss. The added noise renders tractable approximations of the predictive log-likelihood and stabilizes the training procedure. The entropy regularizer encourages PresGANs to capture all the modes of the data distribution. Fitting PresGANs involves computing the intractable gradients of the entropy regularization term; PresGANs sidestep this intractability using unbiased stochastic estimates. We evaluate PresGANs on several datasets and found they mitigate mode collapse and generate samples with high perceptual quality. We further found that PresGANs reduce the gap in performance in terms of predictive log-likelihood between traditional GANs and variational autoencoders (VAEs).

Consistency regularization for variational auto-encoders
Variational auto-encoders (VAEs) are a powerful approach to unsupervised learning. They enable scalable approximate posterior inference in latent-variable models using variational inference (VI). A VAE posits a variational family parameterized by a deep neural network called an encoder that takes data as input. This encoder is shared across all the observations, which amortizes the cost of inference. However the encoder of a VAE has the undesirable property that it maps a given observation and a semantics-preserving transformation of it to different latent representations. This"inconsistency"of the encoder lowers the quality of the learned representations, especially for downstream tasks, and also negatively affects generalization. In this paper, we propose a regularization method to enforce consistency in VAEs. The idea is to minimize the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence between the variational distribution when conditioning on the observation and the variational distribution when conditioning on a random semantic-preserving transformation of this observation. This regularization is applicable to any VAE. In our experiments we apply it to four different VAE variants on several benchmark datasets and found it always improves the quality of the learned representations but also leads to better generalization. In particular, when applied to the Nouveau Variational Auto-Encoder (NVAE), our regularization method yields state-of-the-art performance on MNIST and CIFAR-10. We also applied our method to 3D data and found it learns representations of superior quality as measured by accuracy on a downstream classification task.

The vendi score: A diversity evaluation metric for machine learning
Diversity is an important criterion for many areas of machine learning (ML), including generative modeling and dataset curation. However, existing metrics for measuring diversity are often domain-specific and limited in flexibility. In this paper, we address the diversity evaluation problem by proposing the Vendi Score, which connects and extends ideas from ecology and quantum statistical mechanics to ML. The Vendi Score is defined as the exponential of the Shannon entropy of the eigenvalues of a similarity matrix. This matrix is induced by a user-defined similarity function applied to the sample to be evaluated for diversity. In taking a similarity function as input, the Vendi Score enables its user to specify any desired form of diversity. Importantly, unlike many existing metrics in ML, the Vendi Score does not require a reference dataset or distribution over samples or labels, it is therefore general and applicable to any generative model, decoding algorithm, and dataset from any domain where similarity can be defined. We showcase the Vendi Score on molecular generative modeling where we found it addresses shortcomings of the current diversity metric of choice in that domain. We also applied the Vendi Score to generative models of images and decoding algorithms of text where we found it confirms known results about diversity in those domains. Furthermore, we used the Vendi Score to measure mode collapse, a known shortcoming of generative adversarial networks (GANs). In particular, the Vendi Score revealed that even GANs that capture all the modes of a labeled dataset can be less diverse than the original dataset. Finally, the interpretability of the Vendi Score allowed us to diagnose several benchmark ML datasets for diversity, opening the door for diversity-informed data augmentation.

Augment and Reduce: Stochastic Inference for Large Categorical Distributions
Categorical distributions are ubiquitous in machine learning, e.g., in classification, language models, and recommendation systems. They are also at the core of discrete choice models. However, when the number of possible outcomes is very large, using categorical distributions becomes computationally expensive, as the complexity scales linearly with the number of outcomes. To address this problem, we propose augment and reduce (A&R), a method to alleviate the computational complexity. A&R uses two ideas: latent variable augmentation and stochastic variational inference. It maximizes a lower bound on the marginal likelihood of the data. Unlike existing methods which are specific to softmax, A&R is more general and is amenable to other categorical models, such as multinomial probit. On several large-scale classification problems, we show that A&R provides a tighter bound on the marginal likelihood and has better predictive performance than existing approaches.

Noisin: Unbiased Regularization for Recurrent Neural Networks
Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are powerful models of sequential data. They have been successfully used in domains such as text and speech. However, RNNs are susceptible to overfitting; regularization is important. In this paper we develop Noisin, a new method for regularizing RNNs. Noisin injects random noise into the hidden states of the RNN and then maximizes the corresponding marginal likelihood of the data. We show how Noisin applies to any RNN and we study many different types of noise. Noisin is unbiased--it preserves the underlying RNN on average. We characterize how Noisin regularizes its RNN both theoretically and empirically. On language modeling benchmarks, Noisin improves over dropout by as much as 12.2% on the Penn Treebank and 9.4% on the Wikitext-2 dataset. We also compared the state-of-the-art language model of Yang et al. 2017, both with and without Noisin. On the Penn Treebank, the method with Noisin more quickly reaches state-of-the-art performance.

Quantitative nanoinfrared spectroscopy of anisotropic van der Waals materials
Anisotropic dielectric tensors of uniaxial van der Waals (vdW) materials are difficult to investigate at infrared frequencies. The small dimensions of high-quality exfoliated crystals prevent the use of diffraction-limited spectroscopies. Near-field microscopes coupled to broadband lasers can function as Fourier transform infrared spectrometers with nanometric spatial resolution (nano-FTIR). While dielectric functions of isotropic materials can be readily extracted from nano-FTIR spectra, the in- and out-of-plane permittivities of anisotropic vdW crystals cannot be easily distinguished. For thin vdW crystals residing on a substrate, nano-FTIR spectroscopy probes a combination of sample and substrate responses. We exploit the information in the screening of substrate resonances by vdW crystals to demonstrate that both the in- and out-of-plane dielectric permittivities are identifiable for realistic spectra. This novel method for the quantitative nano-resolved characterization of optical anisotropy was used to determine the dielectric tensor of a bulk 2H-WSe2 microcrystal in the mid-infrared.

Reweighted Expectation Maximization
Training deep generative models with maximum likelihood remains a challenge. The typical workaround is to use variational inference (VI) and maximize a lower bound to the log marginal likelihood of the data. Variational auto-encoders (VAEs) adopt this approach. They further amortize the cost of inference by using a recognition network to parameterize the variational family. Amortized VI scales approximate posterior inference in deep generative models to large datasets. However it introduces an amortization gap and leads to approximate posteriors of reduced expressivity due to the problem known as posterior collapse. In this paper, we consider expectation maximization (EM) as a paradigm for fitting deep generative models. Unlike VI, EM directly maximizes the log marginal likelihood of the data. We rediscover the importance weighted auto-encoder (IWAE) as an instance of EM and propose a new EM-based algorithm for fitting deep generative models called reweighted expectation maximization (REM). REM learns better generative models than the IWAE by decoupling the learning dynamics of the generative model and the recognition network using a separate expressive proposal found by moment matching. We compared REM to the VAE and the IWAE on several density estimation benchmarks and found it leads to significantly better performance as measured by log-likelihood.

Llm-prop: Predicting physical and electronic properties of crystalline solids from their text descriptions
The prediction of crystal properties plays a crucial role in the crystal design process. Current methods for predicting crystal properties focus on modeling crystal structures using graph neural networks (GNNs). Although GNNs are powerful, accurately modeling the complex interactions between atoms and molecules within a crystal remains a challenge. Surprisingly, predicting crystal properties from crystal text descriptions is understudied, despite the rich information and expressiveness that text data offer. One of the main reasons is the lack of publicly available data for this task. In this paper, we develop and make public a benchmark dataset (called TextEdge) that contains text descriptions of crystal structures with their properties. We then propose LLM-Prop, a method that leverages the general-purpose learning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) to predict the physical and electronic properties of crystals from their text descriptions. LLM-Prop outperforms the current state-of-the-art GNN-based crystal property predictor by about 4% in predicting band gap, 3% in classifying whether the band gap is direct or indirect, and 66% in predicting unit cell volume. LLM-Prop also outperforms a finetuned MatBERT, a domain-specific pre-trained BERT model, despite having 3 times fewer parameters. Our empirical results may highlight the current inability of GNNs to capture information pertaining to space group symmetry and Wyckoff sites for accurate crystal property prediction.

Edward: A library for probabilistic modeling, inference, and criticism, 2016
Markov chain score ascent: A unifying framework of variational inference with markovian gradients
Minimizing the inclusive Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence with stochastic gradient descent (SGD) is challenging since its gradient is defined as an integral over the posterior. Recently, multiple methods have been proposed to run SGD with biased gradient estimates obtained from a Markov chain. This paper provides the first non-asymptotic convergence analysis of these methods by establishing their mixing rate and gradient variance. To do this, we demonstrate that these methods-which we collectively refer to as Markov chain score ascent (MCSA) methods-can be cast as special cases of the Markov chain gradient descent framework. Furthermore, by leveraging this new understanding, we develop a novel MCSA scheme, parallel MCSA (pMCSA), that achieves a tighter bound on the gradient variance. We demonstrate that this improved theoretical result translates to superior empirical performance.

Edward: A library for probabilistic modeling, inference, and criticism. arXiv 2016
Probabilistic modeling is a powerful approach for analyzing empirical information. We describe Edward, a library for probabilistic modeling. Edward's design reflects an iterative process pioneered by George Box: build a model of a phenomenon, make inferences about the model given data, and criticize the model's fit to the data. Edward supports a broad class of probabilistic models, efficient algorithms for inference, and many techniques for model criticism. The library builds on top of TensorFlow to support distributed training and hardware such as GPUs. Edward enables the development of complex probabilistic models and their algorithms at a massive scale.

DMLR: Data-centric Machine Learning Research--Past, Present and Future
Drawing from discussions at the inaugural DMLR workshop at ICML 2023 and meetings prior, in this report we outline the relevance of community engagement and infrastructure development for the creation of next-generation public datasets that will advance machine learning science. We chart a path forward as a collective effort to sustain the creation and maintenance of these datasets and methods towards positive scientific, societal and business impact.

Vendi sampling for molecular simulations: Diversity as a force for faster convergence and better exploration
Molecular dynamics (MD) is the method of choice for understanding the structure, function, and interactions of molecules. However, MD simulations are limited by the strong metastability of many molecules, which traps them in a single conformation basin for an extended amount of time. Enhanced sampling techniques, such as metadynamics and replica exchange, have been developed to overcome this limitation and accelerate the exploration of complex free energy landscapes. In this paper, we propose Vendi Sampling, a replica-based algorithm for increasing the efficiency and efficacy of the exploration of molecular conformation spaces. In Vendi sampling, replicas are simulated in parallel and coupled via a global statistical measure, the Vendi Score, to enhance diversity. Vendi sampling allows for the recovery of unbiased sampling statistics and dramatically improves sampling efficiency. We demonstrate the effectiveness of Vendi sampling in improving molecular dynamics simulations by showing significant improvements in coverage and mixing between metastable states and convergence of free energy estimates for four common benchmarks, including Alanine Dipeptide and Chignolin.

DONE