Timber: A native xml database
Provenance management in curated databases
Curated databases in bioinformatics and other disciplines are the result of a great deal of manual annotation, correction and transfer of data from other sources. Provenance information concerning the creation, attribution, or version history of such data is crucial for assessing its integrity and scientific value. General purpose database systems provide little support for tracking provenance, especially when data moves among databases. This paper investigates general-purpose techniques for recording provenance for data that is copied among databases. We describe an approach in which we track the user's actions while browsing source databases and copying data into a curated database, in order to record the user's actions in a convenient, queryable form. We present an implementation of this technique and use it to evaluate the feasibility of database support for provenance management. Our experiments show that although the overhead of a naive approach is fairly high, it can be decreased to an acceptable level using simple optimizations.

Making database systems usable
Database researchers have striven to improve the capability of a database in terms of both performance and functionality. We assert that the usability of a database is as important as its capability. In this paper, we study why database systems today are so difficult to use. We identify a set of five pain points and propose a research agenda to address these. In particular, we introduce a presentation data model and recommend direct data manipulation with a schema later approach. We also stress the importance of provenance and of consistency across presentation models.

Why not?
Network (In) Security Through IP Packet Filtering.
t for improving network security. Used properly, packet filtering is a useful tool for he security-conscious network administrator, but its effective use requires a e p thorough understanding of its capabilities and weaknesses, and of the quirks of th articular protocols that filters are being applied to. This paper examines the utility t fi of IP packet filtering as a network security measure, briefly contrasts IP packe ltering to alternative network security approaches such as application-level gate-

Efficient provenance storage
As the world is increasingly networked and digitized, the data we store has more and more frequently been chopped, baked, diced and stewed. In consequence, there is an increasing need to store and manage provenance for each data item stored in a database, describing exactly where it came from, and what manipulations have been applied to it. Storage of the complete provenance of each data item can become prohibitively expensive. In this paper, we identify important properties of provenance that can be used to considerably reduce the amount of storage required.
 We identify three different techniques: a family of factorization processes and two methods based on inheritance, to decrease the amount of storage required for provenance. We have used the techniques described in this work to significantly reduce the provenance storage costs associated with constructing MiMI [22], a warehouse of data regarding protein interactions, as well as two provenance stores, Karma [31] and PReServ [20], produced through workflow execution. In these real provenance sets, we were able to reduce the size of the provenance by up to a factor of 20. Additionally, we show that this reduced store can be queried efficiently and further that incremental changes can be made inexpensively.

Dataset search: a survey
