Combating imbalance in network intrusion datasets.
An approach to combating network intrusion is the development of systems applying machine learning and data min- ing techniques. Many IDS (Intrusion Detection Systems) suffer from a high rate of false alarms and missed intrusions. We want to be able to improve the intrusion detection rate at a reduced false positive rate. The focus of this paper is rule-learning, using RIPPER, on highly imbalanced intrusion datasets with an objective to improve the true positive rate (intrusions) without significantly increasing the false positives. We use RIPPER as the underlying rule classifier. To counter imbalance in data, we implement a combination of oversampling (both by replication and synthetic generation) and undersampling techniques. We also propose a clustering based methodology for oversampling by generating synthetic instances. We evaluate our approaches on two intrusion datasets — destination and actual packets based — constructed from actual Notre Dame traffic, giving a flavor of real-world data with its idiosyncrasies. Using ROC analysis, we show that oversampling by synthetic generation of minority (intrusion) class outperforms oversampling by replication and RIPPER's loss ratio method. Additionally, we establish that our clustering based approach is more suitable for the detecting intrusions and is able to provide additional improvement over just synthetic generation of instances.

Face-to-face proximity estimation using Bluetooth on smartphones
The availability of "always-on" communications has tremendous implications for how people interact socially. In particular, sociologists are interested in the question if such pervasive access increases or decreases face-to-face interactions. Unlike triangulation which seeks to define precise position, the question of face-to-face interactions reduces to one of proximity, i.e. are the individuals within a certain distance? Moreover, the problem of proximity estimation is complicated by the fact that the measurement must be quite precise (1-1.5m) and can cover a wide variety of environments. Existing approaches such as GPS and WiFi triangulation are insufficient due to those constraints. In contrast, Bluetooth, which is commonly available on most smartphones, provides a compelling alternative for proximity estimation. In this paper, we demonstrate through experimental studies the efficacy of Bluetooth for this exact purpose. We present several real world scenarios and explore Bluetooth proximity estimation on Android with respect to accuracy and power consumption.

A survey of QoS multicasting issues
The proliferation of QoS-aware group applications over the Internet has accelerated the need for scalable and efficient multicast support. We present a multicast "life cycle" model that identifies the various issues involved in a typical multicast session. During the life cycle of a multicast session, three important events can occur: group dynamics, network dynamics, and traffic dynamics. The first two aspects are concerned with maintaining a good-quality (e.g., cost) multicast tree taking into account member join/leave and changes in the network topology due to link/node failures/additions, respectively. The third aspect is concerned with flow, congestion, and error control. We examine various issues and solutions for managing group dynamics and failure handling in QoS multicasting, and outline several future research directions.

An exploratory investigation of message-person congruence in information security awareness campaigns
Botnet economics: uncertainty matters
Modifying smartphone user locking behavior
With an increasing number of organizations allowing personal smart phones onto their networks, considerable security risk is introduced. The security risk is exacerbated by the tremendous heterogeneity of the personal mobile devices and their respective installed pool of applications. Furthermore, by virtue of the devices not being owned by the organization, the ability to authoritatively enforce organizational security polices is challenging. As a result, a critical part of organizational security is the ability to drive user security behavior through either on-device mechanisms or security awareness programs. In this paper, we establish a baseline for user security behavior from a population of over one hundred fifty smart phone users. We then systematically evaluate the ability to drive behavioral change via messaging centered on morality, deterrence, and incentives. Our findings suggest that appeals to morality are most effective over time, whereas deterrence produces the most immediate reaction. Additionally, our findings show that while a significant portion of users are securing their devices without prior intervention, it is difficult to influence change in those who do not.

Experiences measuring sleep and physical activity patterns across a large college cohort with fitbits
In the past few years, a wide variety of highly capable and inexpensive wearable health sensors have emerged. One of the interesting aspects of such sensors is the capability for researchers to longitudinally and automatically quantify important health behaviors, such as physical activity and sleep, with little intervention required by the participant. While the accuracy of these devices has been evaluated in laboratory settings, there exists little public data with respect to user compliance and the consistency of the resulting measurements at a large scale. The focus of this paper is to share our experience in distributing five hundred Fitbit Charge HR devices across a group of college freshmen and to introduce the resulting dataset from our study, the NetHealth Study. We find that when users are compliant, they tend to be exceptionally so, having an average compliance of 86%. User non-compliance does play a role, however, reducing the overall average compliance rate to 67%. We discuss various reasons for non-compliance and also briefly highlight preliminary monitored characteristics of physical activity and sleep in our student population.

Lessons learned from the netsense smartphone study
Over the past few years, smartphones have emerged as one of the most popular mechanisms for accessing content across the Internet driving considerable research to improve wireless performance. A key foundation for such research efforts is the proper understanding of user behavior. However, the gathering of live smartphone data at scale is often difficult and expensive. The focus of this paper is to explore the lessons learned from a two year study of two hundred smart phone users at the University of Notre Dame. In this paper, we offer commentary with regards to the entire process of the study covering aspects including funding considerations, technical architecture design, lessons learned, and recommendations for future efforts gathering live user data.

Differentiating higher and lower job performers in the workplace using mobile sensing
Assessing performance in the workplace typically relies on subjective evaluations, such as, peer ratings, supervisor ratings and self assessments, which are manual, burdensome and potentially biased. We use objective mobile sensing data from phones, wearables and beacons to study workplace performance and offer new insights into behavioral patterns that distinguish higher and lower performers when considering roles in companies (i.e., supervisors and non-supervisors) and different types of companies (i.e., high tech and consultancy). We present initial results from an ongoing year-long study of N=554 information workers collected over a period ranging from 2-8.5 months. We train a gradient boosting classifier that can classify workers as higher or lower performers with AUROC of 0.83. Our work opens the way to new forms of passive objective assessment and feedback to workers to potentially provide week by week or quarter by quarter guidance in the workplace.

Local versus global biological network alignment
Motivation: Network alignment (NA) aims to find regions of similarities between species’ molecular networks. There exist two NA categories: local (LNA) and global (GNA). LNA finds small highly conserved network regions and produces a many-to-many node mapping. GNA finds large conserved regions and produces a one-to-one node mapping. Given the different outputs of LNA and GNA, when a new NA method is proposed, it is compared against existing methods from the same category. However, both NA categories have the same goal: to allow for transferring functional knowledge from well- to poorly-studied species between conserved network regions. So, which one to choose, LNA or GNA? To answer this, we introduce the first systematic evaluation of the two NA categories. Results: We introduce new measures of alignment quality that allow for fair comparison of the different LNA and GNA outputs, as such measures do not exist. We provide user-friendly software for efficient alignment evaluation that implements the new and existing measures. We evaluate prominent LNA and GNA methods on synthetic and real-world biological networks. We study the effect on alignment quality of using different interaction types and confidence levels. We find that the superiority of one NA category over the other is context-dependent. Further, when we contrast LNA and GNA in the application of learning novel protein functional knowledge, the two produce very different predictions, indicating their complementarity. Our results and software provide guidelines for future NA method development and evaluation. Availability and implementation: Software: http://www.nd.edu/~cone/LNA_GNA Contact: tmilenko@nd.edu Supplementary information: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.

The Tesserae Project: Large-Scale, Longitudinal, In Situ, Multimodal Sensing of Information Workers
The Tesserae project investigates how a suite of sensors can measure workplace performance (e.g., organizational citizenship behavior), psychological traits (e.g., personality, affect), and physical characteristics (e.g., sleep, activity) over one year. We enrolled 757 information workers across the U.S. and measure heart rate, physical activity, sleep, social context, and other aspects through smartwatches, a phone agent, beacons, and social media. We report challenges that we faced with enrollment, privacy, and incentive structures while setting up such a long-term multimodal large-scale sensor study. We discuss the tradeoffs of remote versus in-person enrollment, and showed that directly paid, in-person enrolled participants are more compliant overall compared to remotely-enrolled participants. We find that providing detailed information regarding privacy concerns up-front is highly beneficial. We believe that our experiences can benefit other large sensor projects as this field grows.

Enhanced feedback in balance rehabilitation using the Nintendo Wii Balance Board
Balance retraining is a critical part of rehabilitation for many individuals following neuro-trauma such as stroke. The WeHab system described in this paper is a low-cost rehabilitation instrument suite centered around the Nintendo Wii Balance Board that has the potential to enhance rehabilitation for patients with balance disorders. Using the WeHab system, therapists can lead patients through normal rehabilitation exercises with the added benefit of visual biofeedback based on center of pressure location. Patient improvement can be tracked by the WeHab system through objective analysis of trends both within a single session and from one session to the next. Pilot data from several patients receiving inpatient therapy using the WeHab system at the Wound Care center at Memorial Hospital in South Bend, IN, indicate the potential benefit that the system could bring to balance rehabilitation. Specifically, the details of and results from sit-to-stand, weight-shifting, and stepping activities are presented for pilot subjects. Further expansion of the WeHab system is planned, including incorporation of auditory feedback. Future work also includes more structured studies of the effects of the WeHab system on balance recovery.

RIPPS: Rogue identifying packet payload slicer detecting unauthorized wireless hosts through network traffic conditioning
Wireless network access has become an integral part of computing both at home and at the workplace. The convenience of wireless network access at work may be extremely beneficial to employees, but can be a burden to network security personnel. This burden is magnified by the threat of inexpensive wireless access points being installed in a network without the knowledge of network administrators. These devices, termed <it>Rogue Wireless Access Points</it>, may allow a malicious outsider to access valuable network resources, including confidential communication and other stored data. For this reason, wireless connectivity detection is an essential capability, but remains a difficult problem. We present a method of detecting wireless hosts using a local RTT metric and a novel packet payload slicing technique. The local RTT metric provides the means to identify physical transmission media while packet payload slicing conditions network traffic to enhance the accuracy of the detections. Most importantly, the packet payload slicing method is transparent to both clients and servers and does not require direct communication between the monitoring system and monitored hosts.

Problem-based learning in an introductory computer engineering course
Absrraci A s systems increase in complexity and technology advances, curriculum and laboratories are challenged to keep pace. This is especially true in computer engineering, which has seen dramatic growth in the scope and diversity of computer-baed systems. One of the key challenges is developing the educational context for the new technologies, which are being encountered earlier and earlier in a student‘s program of study. Problem-based learning has been central to engineering education, and if is particularly relevant to the integration of new system design concepts and technologies into introductory courses. In this paper, we describe steps taken a t Iowa State University to revitalize a sophomore level course in embedded sysfems by addressing fhe type and extent of problembased learning used in the course. Our goal was to develop a more interesting and relevant integrated classroomNabora tory experience for the students. We present the revisions in terms of fhe “ 3 C Y model, which creates an educational context based on Concepts within Courses within a Curriculum (3C), and in each, progressing along thefive

The effects of seasons and weather on sleep patterns measured through longitudinal multimodal sensing
Wireless reliability: Rethinking 802.11 packet loss
Wireless enabled devices are ubiquitous in todaypsilas computing environment. Businesses, universities, and home users alike are taking advantage of the easy deployment of wireless devices to provide network connectivity without the expense associated with wired connections. Unfortunately, the wireless medium is inherently unreliable resulting in significant work having been performed to better understand the characteristics of the wireless environment. Notably, many works attribute the primary source of wireless losses to errors in the physical medium. In contrast, our work shows that the wireless device itself plays a significant role in 802.11 packet loss. In our experiments, we found that the correlation of loss between multiple closely located (within one lambda) receivers is low with the majority of loss instances only occurring at one of the receivers. We conducted extensive experiments on the individual loss characteristics of five common wireless cards, showing that while the cards behave similarly on the macro-level (e.g. similar overall loss rates), the cards perform quite differently on the micro-level (e.g. burstiness, correlation, and consistency).

Packet scheduling with delay and loss differentiation
Exploring the potential in practice for opportunistic networks amongst smart mobile devices
Wireless network providers are under tremendous pressure to deliver unprecedented amounts of data to a variety of mobile devices. A powerful concept that has only gained limited traction in practice has been the concept of opportunistic networks whereby nodes opportunistically communicate with each other when in range to augment or overcome existing wireless systems. One of the key impediments towards the adoption of opportunistic communications has been the inability to demonstrate viability at scale, namely showing that sufficient opportunities exist and more importantly exist when needed to offer significant network performance gains. We demonstrate through a large-scale, longitudinal study of smartphone users that significant opportunities are indeed prevalent, are indeed stable, and end up being reasonably reciprocal both on short and long-term timescales. In this paper, we propose a framework dubbed PSR (Prevalence, Stability, Reciprocity) to capture key aspects that characterize the net potential for opportunistic networks which we feel merit significantly increased attention.

A multisensor person-centered approach to understand the role of daily activities in job performance with organizational personas
Several psychologists posit that performance is not only a function of personality but also of situational contexts, such as day-level activities. Yet in practice, since only personality assessments are used to infer job performance, they provide a limited perspective by ignoring activity. However, multi-modal sensing has the potential to characterize these daily activities. This paper illustrates how empirically measured activity data complements traditional effects of personality to explain a worker's performance. We leverage sensors in commodity devices to quantify the activity context of 603 information workers. By applying classical clustering methods on this multisensor data, we take a person-centered approach to describe workers in terms of both personality and activity. We encapsulate both these facets into an analytical framework that we call organizational personas. On interpreting these organizational personas we find empirical evidence to support that, independent of a worker's personality, their activity is associated with job performance. While the effects of personality are consistent with the literature, we find that the activity is equally effective in explaining organizational citizenship behavior and is less but significantly effective for task proficiency and deviant behaviors. Specifically, personas that exhibit a daily-activity pattern with fewer location visits, batched phone-use, shorter desk-sessions and longer sleep duration, tend to perform better on all three performance metrics. Organizational personas are a descriptive framework to identify the testable hypotheses that can disentangle the role of malleable aspects like activity in determining the performance of a worker population.

A walk on the client side: Monitoring enterprise wifi networks using smartphone channel scans
During the one minute it takes to read this abstract, two billion smartphones worldwide will perform billions of Wifi channel scans recording the signal strength of nearby Wifi Access Points (APs). Yet despite this ongoing planetary-scale wireless network measurement, few systematic efforts are made today to recover this potentially valuable data. In this paper we ask the question: “Are the smartphone channel scans useful in monitoring enterprise Wifi networks?” More specifically, can these client-side measurements provide new insights compared to the AP-side measurements that enterprise Wifi networks already perform? Beginning with two Wifi scan datasets collected on two large scale smartphone testbeds, we conduct case studies that show how smartphone channel scans can be used to (1) improve AP spectrum management, and (2) predict the impact of AP failure or overload. In each case, a walk on the client side yields valuable insights for network operators that are otherwise impossible to gain from AP-side measurements, and together our results demonstrate the value of smartphone channel scans.

DONE