Domain theory
In unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA), a classifier for the target domain is trained with massive true-label data from the source domain and unlabeled data from the target domain. However, collecting true-label data in the source domain can be expensive and sometimes impractical. Compared to the true label (TL), a complementary label (CL) specifies a class that a pattern does not belong to, and hence, collecting CLs would be less laborious than collecting TLs. In this article, we propose a novel setting where the source domain is composed of complementary-label data, and a theoretical bound of this setting is provided. We consider two cases of this setting: one is that the source domain only contains complementary-label data [completely complementary UDA (CC-UDA)] and the other is that the source domain has plenty of complementary-label data and a small amount of true-label data [partly complementary UDA (PC-UDA)]. To this end, a complementary label adversarial network (CLARINET) is proposed to solve CC-UDA and PC-UDA problems. CLARINET maintains two deep networks simultaneously, with one focusing on classifying the complementary-label source data and the other taking care of the source-to-target distributional adaptation. Experiments show that CLARINET significantly outperforms a series of competent baselines on handwritten digit-recognition and object-recognition tasks.

Cartesian closed categories of domains
Using powerdomains to generalize relational databases
The troublesome probabilistic powerdomain
A new characterization of lambda definability
The classification of continuous domains
The long-standing problem of finding the maximal Cartesian closed categories of continuous domains is solved. The solution requires the definition of a new class of continuous domains, called FS-domains, which contains all retracts of SFP-objects. The properties of FS-domains are discussed.<<ETX>>

Domains and Denotational Semantics: History, Accomplishments and Open Problems
model for PCF A model is inequationally fully abstract if it is based on partial orders and if deno tational approximation coincides with operational approximation where M opera tionally approximates N if in any context C such that C M and C N have base type if C M reduces to a nal answer then C N returns the same nal answer See Sto for a discussion of equationally fully abstract models Milner con structed the model using a sophisticated inverse limit where the nite models were built from operational equivalence classes of terms Nevertheless it still tells us lit tle independent of the operational equivalence relation The sequentiality problem boils down to nding interesting illuminating characterizations of Milner s model

Stably compact spaces and the probabilistic powerspace construction
Four-valued modal logic: Kripke semantics and duality
. We introduce a family of modal expansions of Belnap-Dunn four-valued logic and related systems, and interpret them in many-valued Kripke structures. Using algebraic logic techniques and topological duality for modal algebras, and generalizing the so-called twist-structure representation, we axiomatize by means of Hilbert-style calculi the least modal logic over the four-element Belnap lattice and some of its axiomatic extensions. We study the algebraic models of these systems, relating them to the algebraic semantics of classical multi-modal logic. This link allows us to prove that both local and global consequence of the least four-valued modal logic enjoy the ﬁnite model property and are therefore decidable.

On the duality of compact vs. open
It is a pleasant fact that Stone‐duality may be described very smoothly when restricted to the category of compact spectral spaces: The Stone‐duals of these spaces, arithmetic algebraic lattices, may be replaced by their sublattices of compact elements thus discarding infinitary operations.

On the bitopological nature of Stone duality
Based on the theory of frames we introduce a Stone duality for bitopological spaces. The central concept is that of a d-frame, which axiomatises the two open set lattices. Exploring the resulting concept of d-sobriety we find this to be a much more inclusive concept than usual sobriety. Spatial d-frames suggest additional axioms that lead us to define reasonable d-frames; these have an alternative presentation as partial frames. We explore natural notions of regularity and compactness for bitopological spaces, and their manifestation in d-frames. This yields the machinery to locate precisely within this general landscape a number of classical Stonetype dualities, namely, those of Stone for Boolean algebras and bounded distributive lattices, those of the present authors for strong proximity lattices (with negation), and the duality of classical frames. The general duality can be given a logical reading by viewing the open sets of one topology as positive extents of formulas, and those of the other topology as negative extents. This point of view emphasises the fact that formulas may be undecidable in certain states and may be self-contradictory in others. We also obtain two natural orders on the set of formulas, one related to Scott’s information order and the other being the usual logical implication. The interplay between the two can be said to be the main organising principle of this study.

Multi lingual sequent calculus and coherent spaces
Cartesian closed categories of algebraic cpos
