Designing Fair Ranking Schemes
Items from a database are often ranked based on a combination of criteria. The weight given to each criterion in the combination can greatly affect the fairness of the produced ranking, for example, preferring men over women. A user may have the flexibility to choose combinations that weigh these criteria differently, within limits. In this paper, we develop a system that helps users choose criterion weights that lead to greater fairness. We consider ranking functions that compute the score of each item as a weighted sum of (numeric) attribute values, and then sort items on their score. Each ranking function can be expressed as a point in a multi-dimensional space. For a broad range of fairness criteria, including proportionality, we show how to efficiently identify regions in this space that satisfy these criteria. Using this identification method, our system is able to tell users whether their proposed ranking function satisfies the desired fairness criteria and, if it does not, to suggest the smallest modification that does. Our extensive experiments on real datasets demonstrate that our methods are able to find solutions that satisfy fairness criteria effectively (usually with only small changes to proposed weight vectors) and efficiently (in interactive time, after some initial pre-processing).

A Nutritional Label for Rankings
Algorithmic decisions often result in scoring and ranking individuals to determine credit worthiness, qualifications for college admissions and employment, and compatibility as dating partners. While automatic and seemingly objective, ranking algorithms can discriminate against individuals and protected groups, and exhibit low diversity. Furthermore, ranked results are often unstable -- small changes in the input data or in the ranking methodology may lead to drastic changes in the output, making the result uninformative and easy to manipulate. Similar concerns apply in cases where items other than individuals are ranked, including colleges, academic departments, or products. Despite the ubiquity of rankers, there is, to the best of our knowledge, no technical work that focuses on making rankers transparent. In this demonstration we present Ranking Facts, a Web-based application that generates a "nutritional label" for rankings. Ranking Facts is made up of a collection of visual widgets that implement our latest research results on fairness, stability, and transparency for rankings, and that communicate details of the ranking methodology, or of the output, to the end user. We will showcase Ranking Facts on real datasets from different domains, including college rankings, criminal risk assessment, and financial services.

Assessing and Remedying Coverage for a Given Dataset
Data analysis impacts virtually every aspect of our society today. Often, this analysis is performed on an existing dataset, possibly collected through a process that the data scientists had limited control over. The existing data analyzed may not include the complete universe, but it is expected to cover the diversity of items in the universe. Lack of adequate coverage in the dataset can result in undesirable outcomes such as biased decisions and algorithmic racism, as well as creating vulnerabilities such as opening up room for adversarial attacks. In this paper, we assess the coverage of a given dataset over multiple categorical attributes. We first provide efficient techniques for traversing the combinatorial explosion of value combinations to identify any regions of attribute space not adequately covered by the data. Then, we determine the least amount of additional data that must be obtained to resolve this lack of adequate coverage. We confirm the value of our proposal through both theoretical analyses and comprehensive experiments on real data.

Fair Active Learning
Machine learning (ML) is increasingly being used in high-stakes applications
impacting society. Therefore, it is of critical importance that ML models do
not propagate discrimination. Collecting accurate labeled data in societal
applications is challenging and costly. Active learning is a promising approach
to build an accurate classifier by interactively querying an oracle within a
labeling budget. We design algorithms for fair active learning that carefully
selects data points to be labeled so as to balance model accuracy and fairness.
We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our proposed algorithms over
widely used benchmark datasets using demographic parity and equalized odds
notions of fairness.

Representation bias in data: A survey on identification and resolution techniques
Data-driven algorithms are only as good as the data they work with, while datasets, especially social data, often fail to represent minorities adequately. Representation Bias in data can happen due to various reasons, ranging from historical discrimination to selection and sampling biases in the data acquisition and preparation methods. Given that “bias in, bias out,” one cannot expect AI-based solutions to have equitable outcomes for societal applications, without addressing issues such as representation bias. While there has been extensive study of fairness in machine learning models, including several review papers, bias in the data has been less studied. This article reviews the literature on identifying and resolving representation bias as a feature of a dataset, independent of how consumed later. The scope of this survey is bounded to structured (tabular) and unstructured (e.g., image, text, graph) data. It presents taxonomies to categorize the studied techniques based on multiple design dimensions and provides a side-by-side comparison of their properties. There is still a long way to fully address representation bias issues in data. The authors hope that this survey motivates researchers to approach these challenges in the future by observing existing work within their respective domains.

Efficient Computation of Regret-ratio Minimizing Set: A Compact Maxima Representative
Finding the maxima of a database based on a user preference, especially when the ranking function is a linear combination of the attributes, has been the subject of recent research. A critical observation is that the em convex hull is the subset of tuples that can be used to find the maxima of any linear function. However, in real world applications the convex hull can be a significant portion of the database, and thus its performance is greatly reduced. Thus, computing a subset limited to $r$ tuples that minimizes the regret ratio (a measure of the user's dissatisfaction with the result from the limited set versus the one from the entire database) is of interest. In this paper, we make several fundamental theoretical as well as practical advances in developing such a compact set. In the case of two dimensional databases, we develop an optimal linearithmic time algorithm by leveraging the ordering of skyline tuples. In the case of higher dimensions, the problem is known to be NPcomplete. As one of our main results of this paper, we develop an approximation algorithm that runs in linearithmic time and guarantees a regret ratio, within any arbitrarily small user-controllable distance from the optimal regret ratio. The comprehensive set of experiments on both synthetic and publicly available real datasets confirm the efficiency, quality of output, and scalability of our proposed algorithms.

Mithralabel: Flexible dataset nutritional labels for responsible data science
Using inappropriate datasets for data science tasks can be harmful, especially for applications that impact humans. Targeting data ethics, we demonstrate MithraLabel, a system for generating task-specific information about a dataset, in the form of a set of visual widgets, as a flexible "nutritional label" that provides a user with information to determine the fitness of the dataset for the task at hand.

OmniFair: A Declarative System for Model-Agnostic Group Fairness in Machine Learning
Machine learning (ML) is increasingly being used to make decisions in our society. ML models, however, can be unfair to certain demographic groups (e.g., African Americans or females) according to various fairness metrics. Existing techniques for producing fair ML models either are limited to the type of fairness constraints they can handle (e.g., preprocessing) or require nontrivial modifications to downstream ML training algorithms (e.g., in-processing). We propose a declarative system OmniFair for supporting group fairness in ML. OmniFair features a declarative interface for users to specify desired group fairness constraints and supports all commonly used group fairness notions, including statistical parity, equalized odds, and predictive parity. OmniFair is also model-agnostic in the sense that it does not require modifications to a chosen ML algorithm. OmniFair also supports enforcing multiple user declared fairness constraints simultaneously while most previous techniques cannot. The algorithms in OmniFair maximize model accuracy while meeting the specified fairness constraints, and their efficiency is optimized based on the theoretically provable monotonicity property regarding the trade-off between accuracy and fairness that is unique to our system. We conduct experiments on commonly used datasets that exhibit bias against minority groups in the fairness literature. We show that OmniFair is more versatile than existing algorithmic fairness approaches in terms of both supported fairness constraints and downstream ML models. OmniFair reduces the accuracy loss by up to 94.8% compared with the second best method. OmniFair also achieves similar running time to preprocessing methods, and is up to 270x faster than in-processing methods.

Identifying Insufficient Data Coverage in Databases with Multiple Relations
In today's data-driven world, it is critical that we use appropriate datasets for analysis and decision-making. Datasets could be biased because they reflect existing inequalities in the world, due to the data scientists' biased world view, or due to the data scientists' limited control over the data collection process. For these reasons, it is important to ensure adequate data coverage across different groups over the intersection of multiple attributes. Often, the dataset to be analyzed is obtained through complex joins and predicate combinations over multiple relational tables in a database. Due to the sheer data volume we often have to deal with, determining adequate coverage can require an unacceptably long execution time. In this paper, we provide an efficient approach for coverage analysis, given a set of attributes across multiple tables. To identify regions with insufficient coverage in the combinatorially large set of value combinations, we design an index scheme to avoid explicit table joins, achieve efficient memory usage, and support predicate combination at a high level of parallelism. We also propose P-WALK, a priority-based search algorithm, to traverse the lattice space. Since in practice, coverage assessment typically does not require precise COUNT aggregation results, we further present approximate methods to reduce computation time. Experimental evaluation using three real-world datasets shows the effectiveness, efficiency, and accuracy of proposed methods.

Mithracoverage: a system for investigating population bias for intersectional fairness
Data-driven technologies are only as good as the data they work with. On the other hand, data scientists have often limited control on how the data is collected. Failing to contain adequate number of instances from minority (sub)groups, known as population bias, is a major reason for model unfairness and disparate performance across different groups. We demonstrate MithraCoverage, a system for investigating population bias over the intersection of multiple attributes. We use the concept of coverage for identifying intersectional subgroups with inadequate representation in the dataset. MithraCoverage is a web application with an interactive visual interface that allows data scientists to explore the dataset and identify subgroups with poor coverage.

Tailoring Data Source Distributions for Fairness-aware Data Integration
Data scientists often develop data sets for analysis by drawing upon sources of data available to them. A major challenge is to ensure that the data set used for analysis has an appropriate representation of relevant (demographic) groups: it meets desired distribution requirements. Whether data is collected through some experiment or obtained from some data provider, the data from any single source may not meet the desired distribution requirements. Therefore, a union of data from multiple sources is often required. In this paper, we study how to acquire such data in the most cost effective manner, for typical cost functions observed in practice. We present an optimal solution for binary groups when the underlying distributions of data sources are known and all data sources have equal costs. For the generic case with unequal costs, we design an approximation algorithm that performs well in practice. When the underlying distributions are unknown, we develop an exploration-exploitation based strategy with a reward function that captures the cost and approximations of group distributions in each data source. Besides theoretical analysis, we conduct comprehensive experiments that confirm the effectiveness of our algorithms.

On Obtaining Stable Rankings

 Decision making is challenging when there is more than one criterion to consider. In such cases, it is common to assign a goodness score to each item as a weighted sum of its attribute values and rank them accordingly. Clearly, the ranking obtained depends on the weights used for this summation. Ideally, one would want the ranked order not to change if the weights are changed slightly. We call this property
 stability
 of the ranking. A consumer of a ranked list may trust the ranking more if it has high stability. A producer of a ranked list prefers to choose weights that result in a stable ranking, both to earn the trust of potential consumers and because a stable ranking is intrinsically likely to be more meaningful.
 
 
 In this paper, we develop a framework that can be used to assess the stability of a provided ranking and to obtain a stable ranking within an "acceptable" range of weight values (called "the region of interest"). We address the case where the user cares about the rank order of the entire set of items, and also the case where the user cares only about the top-
 k
 items. Using a geometric interpretation, we propose algorithms that produce stable rankings. In addition to theoretical analyses, we conduct extensive experiments on real datasets that validate our proposal.


Identifying Insuficient Data Coverage for Ordinal Continuous-Valued Atributes
Discovering the Skyline of Web Databases
Many web databases are "hidden" behind proprietary search interfaces that enforce the top-k output constraint, i.e., each query returns at most k of all matching tuples, preferentially selected and returned according to a proprietary ranking function. In this paper, we initiate research into the novel problem of skyline discovery over top-k hidden web databases. Since skyline tuples provide critical insights into the database and include the top-ranked tuple for every possible ranking function following the monotonic order of attribute values, skyline discovery from a hidden web database can enable a wide variety of innovative third-party applications over one or multiple web databases. Our research in the paper shows that the critical factor affecting the cost of skyline discovery is the type of search interface controls provided by the website. As such, we develop efficient algorithms for three most popular types, i.e., one-ended range, free range and point predicates, and then combine them to support web databases that feature a mixture of these types. Rigorous theoretical analysis and extensive real-world online and offline experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed techniques and their superiority over baseline solutions.

Fairly Evaluating and Scoring Items in a Data Set
We frequently compute a score for each item in a data set, sometimes for its intrinsic value, but more often as a step towards classification, ranking, and so forth. The importance of computing this score fairly cannot be overstated. In this tutorial, we will develop a framework for how to think about this task, and then present techniques for responsible scoring and link these to traditional data management challenges.

Crowdsourcing pareto-optimal object finding by pairwise comparisons
This is the first study of crowdsourcing Pareto-optimal object finding over partial orders and by pairwise comparisons, which has applications in public opinion collection, group decision making, and information exploration. Departing from prior studies on crowdsourcing skyline and ranking queries, it considers the case where objects do not have explicit attributes and preference relations on objects are strict partial orders. The partial orders are derived by aggregating crowdsourcers' responses to pairwise comparison questions. The goal is to find all Pareto-optimal objects by the fewest possible questions. It employs an iterative question-selection framework. Guided by the principle of eagerly identifying non-Pareto optimal objects, the framework only chooses candidate questions which must satisfy three conditions. This design is both sufficient and efficient, as it is proven to find a short terminal question sequence. The framework is further steered by two ideas---macro-ordering and micro-ordering. By different micro-ordering heuristics, the framework is instantiated into several algorithms with varying power in pruning questions. Experiment results using both real crowdsourcing marketplace and simulations exhibited not only orders of magnitude reductions in questions when compared with a brute-force approach, but also close-to-optimal performance from the most efficient instantiation.

On Detecting Cherry-picked Trendlines
Poorly supported stories can be told based on data by cherry-picking the data points included. While such stories may be technically accurate, they are misleading. In this paper, we build a system for detecting cherry-picking, with a focus on trendlines extracted from temporal data. We define a support metric for detecting such trendlines. Given a dataset and a statement made based on a trendline, we compute a support score that indicates how cherry-picked it is. Studying different types of trendlines and formalizing terms, we propose efficient and effective algorithms for computing the support measure. We also study the problem of discovering the most supported statements. Besides theoretical analysis, we conduct extensive experiments on real-world data, that demonstrate the validity of our proposed techniques.

RRR: Rank-Regret Representative
Selecting the best items in a dataset is a common task in data exploration. However, the concept of "best'' lies in the eyes of the beholder: different users may consider different attributes more important, and hence arrive at different rankings. Nevertheless, one can remove "dominated'' items and create a "representative'' subset of the data, comprising the "best items'' in it. A Pareto-optimal representative is guaranteed to contain the best item of each possible ranking, but it can be a large portion of data. A much smaller representative can be found if we relax the requirement to include the best item for each user, and instead just limit the users' "regret''. Existing work defines regret as the loss in score by limiting consideration to the representative instead of the full data set, for any chosen ranking function. However, the score is often not a meaningful number and users may not understand its absolute value. Sometimes small ranges in score can include large fractions of the data set. In contrast, users do understand the notion of rank ordering. Therefore, we consider the position of the items in the ranked list for defining the regret and propose the \em rank-regret representative as the minimal subset of the data containing at least one of the top-k of any possible ranking function. This problem is NP-complete. We use a geometric interpretation of items to bound their ranks on ranges of functions and to utilize combinatorial geometry notions for developing effective and efficient approximation algorithms for the problem. Experiments on real datasets demonstrate that we can efficiently find small subsets with small rank-regrets.

Efficient construction of approximate ad-hoc ML models through materialization and reuse

 Machine learning has become an essential toolkit for complex analytic processing. Data is typically stored in large data warehouses with multiple dimension hierarchies. Often, data used for building an ML model are aligned on OLAP hierarchies such as location or time. In this paper, we investigate the feasibility of efficiently constructing approximate ML models for new queries from previously constructed ML models by leveraging the concepts of
 model materialization
 and
 reuse
 . For example, is it possible to construct an approximate ML model for data from the year 2017 if one already has ML models for each of its quarters? We propose algorithms that can support a wide variety of ML models such as generalized linear models for classification along with K-Means and Gaussian Mixture models for clustering. We propose a cost based optimization framework that identifies appropriate ML models to combine at query time and conduct extensive experiments on real-world and synthetic datasets. Our results indicate that our framework can support analytic queries on ML models, with superior performance, achieving dramatic speedups of several orders in magnitude on very large datasets.


MithraRanking: A System for Responsible Ranking Design
Items from a database are often ranked based on a combination of criteria. The weight given to each criterion in the combination can greatly affect the ranking produced. Often, a user may have a general sense of the relative importance of the different criteria, but beyond this may have the flexibility, within limits, to choose combinations that weigh these criteria differently with an acceptable region. We demonstrate MithraRanking, a system that helps users choose criterion weights that lead to "better'' rankings in terms of having desirable properties while remaining within the acceptable region. The goodness properties we focus on are stability and fairness.

DONE