SPINS: Security protocols for sensor networks
Sensor network is a dominant technology among different wireless communication technologies due to its great deal of efficiency. Security is the critical issue for every types of network whether it is sensor networks or other networks. So far, many of the researchers have thought to physically implement the sensor nodes and sensor networks but their work was not enough to create any valuable security for different communicating devices during communication processes.This paper presents a model that works on SPINS security building blocks because Sensor network works in very resource constraint environment and only SPINS security protocol can fulfill those requirements of the proposed model. SPINS provides two security building blocks, SNEP and µTESLA. This model presents some unique processing units features such as Beacon message, Data controller unit etc. This security model is best to achieve targets but main issue in sensor network is still not solved about the management of power (short battery life), computation overhead and low storage capacity of memory. The proposed model scenarios have been simulated in QualNet 4.5.

Practical techniques for searches on encrypted data
It is desirable to store data on data storage servers such as mail servers and file servers in encrypted form to reduce security and privacy risks. But this usually implies that one has to sacrifice functionality for security. For example, if a client wishes to retrieve only documents containing certain words, it was not previously known how to let the data storage server perform the search and answer the query, without loss of data confidentiality. We describe our cryptographic schemes for the problem of searching on encrypted data and provide proofs of security for the resulting crypto systems. Our techniques have a number of crucial advantages. They are provably secure: they provide provable secrecy for encryption, in the sense that the untrusted server cannot learn anything about the plaintext when only given the ciphertext; they provide query isolation for searches, meaning that the untrusted server cannot learn anything more about the plaintext than the search result; they provide controlled searching, so that the untrusted server cannot search for an arbitrary word without the user's authorization; they also support hidden queries, so that the user may ask the untrusted server to search for a secret word without revealing the word to the server. The algorithms presented are simple, fast (for a document of length n, the encryption and search algorithms only need O(n) stream cipher and block cipher operations), and introduce almost no space and communication overhead, and hence are practical to use today.

Random key predistribution schemes for sensor networks
Key establishment in sensor networks is a challenging problem because asymmetric key cryptosystems are unsuitable for use in resource constrained sensor nodes, and also because the nodes could be physically compromised by an adversary. We present three new mechanisms for key establishment using the framework of pre-distributing a random set of keys to each node. First, in the q-composite keys scheme, we trade off the unlikeliness of a large-scale network attack in order to significantly strengthen random key predistribution's strength against smaller-scale attacks. Second, in the multipath-reinforcement scheme, we show how to strengthen the security between any two nodes by leveraging the security of other links. Finally, we present the random-pairwise keys scheme, which perfectly preserves the secrecy of the rest of the network when any node is captured, and also enables node-to-node authentication and quorum-based revocation.

Ariadne: A secure on-demand routing protocol for ad hoc networks
Abstract
An ad hoc network is a group of wireless mobile computers (or nodes), in which individual nodes cooperate by forwarding packets for each other to allow nodes to communicate beyond direct wireless transmission range. Prior research in ad hoc networking has generally studied the routing problem in a non-adversarial setting, assuming a trusted environment. In this paper, we present attacks against routing in ad hoc networks, and we present the design and performance evaluation of a new secure on-demand ad hoc network routing protocol, called Ariadne. Ariadne prevents attackers or compromised nodes from tampering with uncompromised routes consisting of uncompromised nodes, and also prevents many types of Denial-of-Service attacks. In addition, Ariadne is efficient, using only highly efficient symmetric cryptographic primitives.


Packet leashes: a defense against wormhole attacks in wireless networks
As mobile ad hoc network applications are deployed, security emerges as a central requirement. In this paper, we introduce the wormhole attack, a severe attack in ad hoc networks that is particularly challenging to defend against. The wormhole attack is possible even if the attacker has not compromised any hosts, and even if all communication provides authenticity and confidentiality. In the wormhole attack, an attacker records packets (or bits) at one location in the network, tunnels them (possibly selectively) to another location, and retransmits them there into the network. The wormhole attack can form a serious threat in wireless networks, especially against many ad hoc network routing protocols and location-based wireless security systems. For example, most existing ad hoc network routing protocols, without some mechanism to defend against the wormhole attack, would be unable to find routes longer than one or two hops, severely disrupting communication. We present a new, general mechanism, called packet leashes, for detecting and thus defending against wormhole attacks, and we present a specific protocol, called TIK, that implements leashes.

Security in wireless sensor networks
Recently, wireless sensor networks (WSN) have gained great popularity, mainly because they provide a low cost alternative to solving a great variety of real-world problems (Akyildiz, Su, & Sankarasubramaniam, 2003). Their low cost enableds the deployment of large amounts of sensor nodes (in the order of thousands, and in the future perhaps millions), which most of the time operate under harsh environments. WSN present extreme AbstrAct

The sybil attack in sensor networks: analysis & defenses
Security is important for many sensor network applications. A particularly harmful attack against sensor and ad hoc networks is known as the Sybil attack based on J.R. Douceur (2002), where a node illegitimately claims multiple identities. This paper systematically analyzes the threat posed by the Sybil attack to wireless sensor networks. We demonstrate that the attack can be exceedingly detrimental to many important functions of the sensor network such as routing, resource allocation, misbehavior detection, etc. We establish a classification of different types of the Sybil attack, which enables us to better understand the threats posed by each type, and better design countermeasures against each type. We then propose several novel techniques to defend against the Sybil attack, and analyze their effectiveness quantitatively.

SEAD: Secure efficient distance vector routing for mobile wireless ad hoc networks
An ad hoc network is a collection of wireless computers (nodes), communicating among themselves over possibly multihop paths, without the help of any infrastructure such as base stations or access points. Although many previous ad hoc network routing protocols have been based in part on distance vector approaches, they have generally assumed a trusted environment. We design and evaluate the Secure Efficient Ad hoc Distance vector routing protocol (SEAD), a secure ad hoc network routing protocol based on the design of the Destination-Sequenced Distance-Vector routing protocol (DSDV). In order to support use with nodes of limited CPU processing capability, and to guard against denial-of-service (DoS) attacks in which an attacker attempts to cause other nodes to consume excess network bandwidth or processing time, we use efficient one-way hash functions and do not use asymmetric cryptographic operations in the protocol. SEAD performs well over the range of scenarios we tested, and is robust against multiple uncoordinated attackers creating incorrect routing state in any other node, even in spite of any active attackers or compromised nodes in the network.

Efficient authentication and signing of multicast streams over lossy channels
Multicast stream authentication and signing is an important and challenging problem. Applications include the continuous authentication of radio and TV Internet broadcasts, and authenticated data distribution by satellite. The main challenges are fourfold. First, authenticity must be guaranteed even when only the sender of the data is trusted. Second, the scheme needs to scale to potentially millions of receivers. Third, streamed media distribution can have high packet loss. Finally the system needs to be efficient to support fast packet rates. We propose two efficient schemes, TESLA and EMSS, for secure lossy multicast streams. TESLA (Timed Efficient Stream Loss-tolerant Authentication), offers sender authentication, strong loss robustness, high scalability and minimal overhead at the cost of loose initial time synchronization and slightly delayed authentication. EMSS (Efficient Multi-chained Stream Signature), provides nonrepudiation of origin, high loss resistance, and low overhead, at the cost of slightly delayed verification.

TESLA broadcast authentication
One of the main challenges of securing broadcast communication is source authentication, or enabling receivers of broadcast data to verify that the received data really originates from the claimed source and was not modified en route. This problem is complicated by mutually untrusted receivers and unreliable communication environments where the sender does not retransmit lost packets. This article presents the TESLA (Timed Efficient Stream Loss-tolerant Authentication) broadcast authentication protocol, an efficient protocol with low communication and computation overhead, which scales to large numbers of receivers, and tolerates packet loss. TESLA is based on loose time synchronization between the sender and the receivers. Despite using purely symmetric cryptographic functions (MAC functions), TESLA achieves asymmetric properties. We discuss a PKI application based purely on TESLA, assuming that all network nodes are loosely time synchronized.

Déjà Vu: a user study. Using Images for Authentication.
Cyber–physical security of a smart grid infrastructure
It is often appealing to assume that existing solutions can be directly applied to emerging engineering domains. Unfortunately, careful investigation of the unique challenges presented by new domains exposes its idiosyncrasies, thus often requiring new approaches and solutions. In this paper, we argue that the “smart” grid, replacing its incredibly successful and reliable predecessor, poses a series of new security challenges, among others, that require novel approaches to the field of cyber security. We will call this new field cyber-physical security. The tight coupling between information and communication technologies and physical systems introduces new security concerns, requiring a rethinking of the commonly used objectives and methods. Existing security approaches are either inapplicable, not viable, insufficiently scalable, incompatible, or simply inadequate to address the challenges posed by highly complex environments such as the smart grid. A concerted effort by the entire industry, the research community, and the policy makers is required to achieve the vision of a secure smart grid infrastructure.

Advanced and authenticated marking schemes for IP traceback
Defending against distributed denial-of-service attacks is one of the hardest security problems on the Internet today. One difficulty to thwart these attacks is to trace the source of the attacks because they often use incorrect, or spoofed IP source addresses to disguise the true origin. In this paper, we present two new schemes, the advanced marking scheme and the authenticated marking scheme, which allow the victim to trace-back the approximate origin of spoofed IP packets. Our techniques feature low network and router overhead, and support incremental deployment. In contrast to previous work, our techniques have significantly higher precision (lower false positive rate) and fewer computation overhead for the victim to reconstruct the attack paths under large scale distributed denial-of-service attacks. Furthermore the authenticated marking scheme provides efficient authentication of routers' markings such that even a compromised router cannot forge or tamper markings from other uncompromised routers.

SIA: Secure information aggregation in sensor networks
Sensor networks promise viable solutions to many monitoring problems. However, the practical deployment of sensor networks faces many challenges imposed by real-world demands. Sensor nodes often have limited computation and communication resources and battery power. Moreover, in many applications sensors are deployed in open environments, and hence are vulnerable to physical attacks, potentially compromising the sensor's cryptographic keys.One of the basic and indispensable functionalities of sensor networks is the ability to answer queries over the data acquired by the sensors. The resource constraints and security issues make designing mechanisms for information aggregation in large sensor networks particularly challenging.In this paper, we propose a novel framework for secure information aggregation in large sensor networks. In our framework certain nodes in the sensor network, called aggregators, help aggregating information requested by a query, which substantially reduces the communication overhead. By constructing efficient random sampling mechanisms and interactive proofs, we enable the user to verify that the answer given by the aggregator is a good approximation of the true value even when the aggregator and a fraction of the sensor nodes are corrupted. In particular, we present efficient protocols for secure computation of the median and the average of the measurements, for the estimation of the network size, and for finding the minimum and maximum sensor reading. Our protocols require only sublinear communication between the aggregator and the user. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first on secure information aggregation in sensor networks that can handle a malicious aggregator and sensor nodes.

Rushing attacks and defense in wireless ad hoc network routing protocols
In an ad hoc network, mobile computers (or nodes) cooperate to forward packets for each other, allowing nodes to communicate beyond their direct wireless transmission range. Many of the proposed routing protocols for ad hoc networks operate in an on-demand fashion, as on-demand routing protocols have been shown to often have lower overhead and faster reaction time than other types of routing based on periodic (proactive) mechanisms. Significant attention recently has been devoted to developing secure routing protocols for ad~hoc networks, including a number of secure on-demand routing protocols, that defend against a variety of possible attacks on network routing. In this paper, we present the rushing attack, a new attack that results in denial-of-service when used against all previous on-demand ad~hoc network routing protocols. For example, DSR, AODV, and secure protocols based on them, such as Ariadne, ARAN, and SAODV, are unable to discover routes longer than two hops when subject to this attack. This attack is also particularly damaging because it can be performed by a relatively weak attacker. We analyze why previous protocols fail under this attack. We then develop Rushing Attack Prevention (RAP), a generic defense against the rushing attack for on-demand protocols. RAP incurs no cost unless the underlying protocol fails to find a working route, and it provides provable security properties even against the strongest rushing attackers.

Wormhole attacks in wireless networks
As mobile ad hoc network applications are deployed, security emerges as a central requirement. In this paper, we introduce the wormhole attack, a severe attack in ad hoc networks that is particularly challenging to defend against. The wormhole attack is possible even if the attacker has not compromised any hosts, and even if all communication provides authenticity and confidentiality. In the wormhole attack, an attacker records packets (or bits) at one location in the network, tunnels them (possibly selectively) to another location, and retransmits them there into the network. The wormhole attack can form a serious threat in wireless networks, especially against many ad hoc network routing protocols and location-based wireless security systems. For example, most existing ad hoc network routing protocols, without some mechanism to defend against the wormhole attack, would be unable to find routes longer than one or two hops, severely disrupting communication. We present a general mechanism, called packet leashes, for detecting and, thus defending against wormhole attacks, and we present a specific protocol, called TIK, that implements leashes. We also discuss topology-based wormhole detection, and show that it is impossible for these approaches to detect some wormhole topologies.

Flicker: An execution infrastructure for TCB minimization
We present Flicker, an infrastructure for executing security-sensitive code in complete isolation while trusting as few as 250 lines of additional code. Flicker can also provide meaningful, fine-grained attestation of the code executed (as well as its inputs and outputs) to a remote party. Flicker guarantees these properties even if the BIOS, OS and DMA-enabled devices are all malicious. Flicker leverages new commodity processors from AMD and Intel and does not require a new OS or VMM. We demonstrate a full implementation of Flicker on an AMD platform and describe our development environment for simplifying the construction of Flicker-enabled code.

SecVisor: A tiny hypervisor to provide lifetime kernel code integrity for commodity OSes
We propose SecVisor, a tiny hypervisor that ensures code integrity for commodity OS kernels. In particular, SecVisor ensures that only user-approved code can execute in kernel mode over the entire system lifetime. This protects the kernel against code injection attacks, such as kernel rootkits. SecVisor can achieve this propertyeven against an attacker who controls everything but the CPU, the memory controller, and system memory chips. Further, SecVisor can even defend against attackers with knowledge of zero-day kernel exploits.
 Our goal is to make SecVisor amenable to formal verificationand manual audit, thereby making it possible to rule out known classes of vulnerabilities. To this end, SecVisor offers small code size and small external interface. We rely on memory virtualization to build SecVisor and implement two versions, one using software memory virtualization and the other using CPU-supported memory virtualization. The code sizes of the runtime portions of these versions are 1739 and 1112 lines, respectively. The size of the external interface for both versions of SecVisor is 2 hypercalls. It is easy to port OS kernels to SecVisor. We port the Linux kernel version 2.6.20 by adding 12 lines and deleting 81 lines, out of a total of approximately 4.3 million lines of code in the kernel.

Efficient and secure source authentication for multicast
One of the main challenges of securing multicast communicationis source authentication,or enabling receivers of multicast data to verify that the received data originated with the claimed source and was not modified enroute. The problem becomes more complex in common settings where other receivers of the data are not trusted, and where lost packets are not retransmitted. Several source authentication schemes for multicast have been suggested in the past, but none of these schemes is satisfactorily efficient in all prominent parameters. We recently proposed a very efficient scheme, TESLA, that is based on initial loose time synchronization between the sender and the receivers, followed by delayed release of keys by the sender. This paper proposes several substantial modifications and improvements to TESLA. One modification allows receivers to authenticate most packets as soon as they arrive (whereas TESLArequires buffering packets at the receiver side, and provides delayed authentication only). Other modifications improve the scalability of the scheme, reduce the space overhead for multiple instances, increase its resistance to denial-of-service attacks, and more.

Distributed detection of node replication attacks in sensor networks
The low-cost, off-the-shelf hardware components in unshielded sensor-network nodes leave them vulnerable to compromise. With little effort, an adversary may capture nodes, analyze and replicate them, and surreptitiously insert these replicas at strategic locations within the network. Such attacks may have severe consequences; they may allow the adversary to corrupt network data or even disconnect significant parts of the network. Previous node replication detection schemes depend primarily on centralized mechanisms with single points of failure, or on neighborhood voting protocols that fail to detect distributed replications. To address these fundamental limitations, we propose two new algorithms based on emergent properties (Gligor (2004)), i.e., properties that arise only through the collective action of multiple nodes. Randomized multicast distributes node location information to randomly-selected witnesses, exploiting the birthday paradox to detect replicated nodes, while line-selected multicast uses the topology of the network to detect replication. Both algorithms provide globally-aware, distributed node-replica detection, and line-selected multicast displays particularly strong performance characteristics. We show that emergent algorithms represent a promising new approach to sensor network security; moreover, our results naturally extend to other classes of networks in which nodes can be captured, replicated and re-inserted by an adversary.

DONE