Unbounded-error quantum computation with small space bounds
Succinctness of two-way probabilistic and quantum finite automata
We introduce a new model of two-way finite automaton, which is endowed with the capability of resetting the position of the tape head to the left end of the tape in a single move during the computation. Several variants of this model are examined, with the following results: The weakest known model of computation where quantum computers recognize more languages with bounded error than their classical counterparts is identified. We prove that two-way probabilistic and quantum finite automata (2PFAs and 2QFAs) can be considerably more concise than both their one-way versions (1PFAs and 1QFAs), and two-way nondeterministic finite automata (2NFAs). For this purpose, we demonstrate several infinite families of regular languages which can be recognized with some fixed probability greater than 1 2 by just tuning the transition amplitudes of a 2QFA (and, in one case, a 2PFA) with a constant number of states, whereas the sizes of the corresponding 1PFAs, 1QFAs and 2NFAs grow without bound. We also show that 2QFAs with mixed states can support highly efficient probability amplification.

Quantum finite automata: A modern introduction
Qualitative system identification: deriving structure from behavior
Languages recognized by nondeterministic quantum finite automata
The nondeterministic quantum finite automaton (NQFA) is the only known case where a one-way quantum finite automaton (QFA) model has been shown to be strictly superior in terms of language recognition power to its probabilistic counterpart. We give a characterization of the class of languages recognized by NQFA's, demonstrating that it is equal to the class of exclusive stochastic languages. We also characterize the class of languages that are recognized necessarily by two-sided error by QFA's. It is shown that these classes remain the same when the QFA's used in their definitions are replaced by several different model variants that have appeared in the literature. We prove several closure properties of the related classes. The ramifications of these results about classical and quantum sublogarithmic space complexity classes are examined.

Sound and complete qualitative simulation is impossible
Quantum computation with write-only memory
Languages recognized with unbounded error by quantum finite automata
Magic coins are useful for small-space quantum machines
Although polynomial-time probabilistic Turing machines can utilize uncomputable transition probabilities to recognize uncountably many languages with bounded error when allowed to use logarithmic space, it is known that such "magic coins" give no additional computational power to constant-space versions of those machines. We show that adding a few quantum bits to the model changes the picture dramatically. For every language $L$, there exists such a two-way quantum finite automaton that recognizes a language of the same Turing degree as $L$ with bounded error in polynomial time. When used as verifiers in public-coin interactive proof systems, such automata can verify membership in all languages with bounded error, outperforming their classical counterparts, which are known to fail for the palindromes language.

Efficient probability amplification in two-way quantum finite automata
A linguistically motivated information retrieval system for Turkish
Improved filtering for the QSIM algorithm
A source of spurious predictions inside the qualitative simulation algorithm QSIM proposed by B. Kuiper (1986) is identified. The proposed solution involves the use of interval corresponding values for filtering inconsistent states and does not require any additions or restrictions in the input set, unlike the other approaches to the spurious prediction elimination problem. The time and space complexities of the algorithm are not affected by the modification. >

A new family of nonstochastic languages
Proving the power of postselection
It is a widely believed, though unproven, conjecture that the capability of postselection increases the language recognition power of both probabilistic and quantum polynomial-time computers. It is also unknown whether polynomial-time quantum machines with postselection are more powerful than their probabilistic counterparts with the same resource restrictions. We approach these problems by imposing additional constraints on the resources to be used by the computer, and are able to prove for the first time that postselection does augment the computational power of both classical and quantum computers, and that quantum does outperform probabilistic in this context, under simultaneous time and space bounds in a certain range. We also look at postselected versions of space-bounded classes, as well as those corresponding to error-free and one-sided error recognition, and provide classical characterizations. It is shown that NL would equal RL if the randomized machines had the postselection capability.

L'Hôpital's Filter for QSIM
We have identified a source of spurious predictions inside the qualitative simulation algorithm QSIM. The algorithm fails to check for violations of l'Hopital's rule, which causes the addition of inconsistent states to the behavior tree. Our proposed solution involves adding a new state filter to make the required controls and does not necessitate any additions or restrictions in the input set. We make use of extended corresponding value tuples spanning multiple constraints. The necessary modifications to the algorithm are explained and the technique is demonstrated on examples. Used in conjunction with other spurious behavior elimination methods, this approach would increase QSIM's ability to handle more complex systems.

Quantum counter automata
The weakness of CTC qubits and the power of approximate counting
We present results in structural complexity theory concerned with the following interrelated topics: computation with postselection/restarting, closed timelike curves (CTCs), and approximate counting. The first result is a new characterization of the lesser known complexity class BPPpath in terms of more familiar concepts. Precisely, BPPpath is the class of problems that can be efficiently solved with a nonadaptive oracle for the approximate counting problem. Similarly, PP equals the class of problems that can be solved efficiently with nonadaptive queries for the related approximate difference problem. Another result is concerned with the computational power conferred by CTCs, or equivalently, the computational complexity of finding stationary distributions for quantum channels. Using the preceding characterization of PP, we show that any poly(n)-time quantum computation using a CTC of O(log n) qubits may as well just use a CTC of 1 classical bit. This result essentially amounts to showing that one can find a stationary distribution for a poly(n)-dimensional quantum channel in PP.

Probabilistic and quantum finite automata with postselection
We prove that endowing a real-time probabilistic or quantum computer with the ability of postselection increases its computational power. For this purpose, we provide a new model of finite automata with postselection, and compare it with the model of L\={a}ce et al. We examine the related language classes, and also establish separations between the classical and quantum versions, and between the zero-error vs. bounded-error modes of recognition in this model.

Finite automata with advice tapes
We define a model of advised computation by finite automata where the advice is provided on a separate tape. We consider several variants of the model where the advice is deterministic or randomized, the input tape head is allowed real-time, one-way, or two-way access, and the automaton is classical or quantum. We prove several separation results among these variants, and establish the relationships between this model and the previously studied ways of providing advice to finite automata.

Computation with multiple CTCs of fixed length and width
DONE