Incipient ferroelectricity in Al‐doped HfO2 thin films
Incipient ferroelectricity is known to occur in perovskites such as SrTiO3, KTaO3, and CaTiO3. For the first time it is shown that the intensively researched HfO2 thin films (16 nm) also possess ferroelectric properties when aluminium is incorporated into the host lattice. Polarization measurements on Al:HfO2 based metal–insulator–metal capacitors show an antiferroelectric‐to‐ferroelectric phase transition depending on annealing conditions and aluminium content. Structural investigation of the electrically characterized capacitors by grazing incidence X‐ray diffraction is presented in order to gain further insight on the potential origin of ferroelectricity. The non‐centrosymmetry of the elementary cell, which is essential for ferroelectricity, is assumed to originate from an orthorhombic phase of space group Pbc21 stabilized for low Al doping in HfO2. The ferroelectric properties of the modified HfO2 thin films yield high potential for various ferroelectric, piezoelectric, and pyroelectric applications. Furthermore, due to the extensive knowledge accumulated by various research groups regarding the HfO2 dielectric, an immediate relevance of ferroelectric hafnium oxide thin films is anticipated by the authors.

Ferroelectricity in Gd-doped HfO2 thin films
The incorporation of Gd into HfO2 thin films is shown to induce ferroelectricity. A significant influence of electric field cycling on both polarization as well as small-signal capacitance-voltage measurements can be observed. X-ray diffraction measurements are supported by infrared absorption analysis and give further evidence of the previously proposed non-centrosymmetric transition phase of space group Pbc21.

Co-sputtering yttrium into hafnium oxide thin films to produce ferroelectric properties
Thin film capacitors were fabricated by sputtering TiN-Y doped HfO2-TiN stacks on silicon substrates. Yttrium was incorporated into the HfO2 layers by simultaneously sputtering from Y2O3 and HfO2 sources. Electric polarization and relative permittivity measurements yield distinct ferroelectric properties as a result of low yttrium dopant concentrations in the range of 0.9-1.9 mol. %. Grazing incidence x-ray diffraction measurements show the formation of an orthorhombic phase in this range. Compared to atomic layer deposition films, the highest remanent polarization and the highest relative permittivity were obtained at significantly lower doping concentrations in these sputtered films.

Thickness dependent barrier performance of permeation barriers made from atomic layer deposited alumina for organic devices
Development of high strength and strongly cube textured Ni-4.5% W/Ni-15% Cr composite substrate for coated conductor application
Prolonging storability of Indian gooseberry (Emblica officinalis) under semi-arid ecosystem of Gujarat
An experiment was conducted during 2001-2002 to see the effect of different post-harvest treatments on storability of Indian gooseberry (Emblica officinallis Gaertn) during storage at ambient temperature. Increase in physiological loss in weight, spoilage percentage, total soluble solids, total sugar and reducing sugar and decrease in acidity, ascorbic acid with advancement of storage period were general phenomena in all the treatments. Fruits treated with calcium nitrate 1.5 % + perforated polyethylene bag and GA 3 100 ppm + perforated polyethylene bag recorded the least physiological loss in weight (2.12-16.00 and 2.15-16.34%) and spoilage loss (2.40-15.00% and 2.50- 15.60%) and exhibited 11 days of storage life. The same treatments also showed lowest respiratory activity (72.10-82.00 mg CO 2 /kg/hr and 72.00-82.10 mg CO 2 / kg/hr), on the last day of storage (day 13).

Understanding Host-Pathogen Interactions with Expression Profiling of NILs Carrying Rice-Blast Resistance Pi9 Gene
Magnaporthe oryzae infection causes rice blast, a destructive disease that is responsible for considerable decrease in rice yield. Development of resistant varieties via introgressing resistance genes with marker-assisted breeding can eliminate pesticide use and minimize crop losses. Here, resistant near-isogenic line (NIL) of Pusa Basmati-1(PB1) carrying broad spectrum rice blast resistance gene Pi9 was used to investigate Pi9-mediated resistance response. Infected and uninfected resistant NIL and susceptible control line were subjected to RNA-Seq. With the exception of one gene (Pi9), transcriptional signatures between the two lines were alike, reflecting basal similarities in their profiles. Resistant and susceptible lines possessed 1043 (727 up-regulated and 316 down-regulated) and 568 (341 up-regulated and 227 down-regulated) unique and significant differentially expressed loci (SDEL), respectively. Pathway analysis revealed higher transcriptional activation of kinases, WRKY, MYB, and ERF transcription factors, JA-ET hormones, chitinases, glycosyl hydrolases, lipid biosynthesis, pathogenesis and secondary metabolism related genes in resistant NIL than susceptible line. Singular enrichment analysis demonstrated that blast resistant NIL is significantly enriched with genes for primary and secondary metabolism, response to biotic stimulus and transcriptional regulation. The co-expression network showed proteins of genes in response to biotic stimulus interacted in a manner unique to resistant NIL upon M. oryzae infection. These data suggest that Pi9 modulates genome-wide transcriptional regulation in resistant NIL but not in susceptible PB1. We successfully used transcriptome profiling to understand the molecular basis of Pi9-mediated resistance mechanisms, identified potential candidate genes involved in early pathogen response and revealed the sophisticated transcriptional reprogramming during rice-M. oryzae interactions.

Breakdown and protection of ALD moisture barrier thin films
The water vapor barrier properties of low-temperature atomic layer deposited (ALD) AlOx thin-films are observed to be unstable if exposed directly to high or even ambient relative humidities. Upon exposure to humid atmospheres, their apparent barrier breaks down and their water vapor transmission rates (WVTR), measured by electrical calcium tests, deteriorate by several orders of magnitude. These changes are accompanied by surface roughening beyond the original thickness, observed by atomic force microscopy. X-ray reflectivity investigations show a strong decrease in density caused by only 5 min storage in a 38 °C, 90% relative humidity climate. We show that barrier stabilities required for device applications can be achieved by protection layers which prevent the direct contact of water condensing on the surface, i.e., the sensitive ALD barrier. Nine different protection layers of either ALD materials or polymers are tested on the barriers. Although ALD materials prove to be ineffective, applied polymers seem to provide good protection independent of thickness, surface free energy, and deposition technique. A glued-on PET foil stands out as a low-cost, easily processed, and especially stable solution. This way, 20 nm single layer ALD barriers for organic electronics are measured. They yield reliable WVTRs down to 2×10(-5) g(H2O) m(-2) day(-1) at 38 °C and 90% relative humidity, highlighting the great potential of ALD encapsulation.

Mechanism of coercivity in epitaxial  thin films
The magnetization reversal mechanism in pulsed laser deposited, hard magnetic epitaxial $\mathrm{Sm}{\mathrm{Co}}_{5}$ thin films with high coercivity $(g3\phantom{\rule{0.3em}{0ex}}\mathrm{T})$ and remanent polarization $(0.94\phantom{\rule{0.3em}{0ex}}\mathrm{T})$ is investigated. From temperature and angle dependent hysteresis measurements in the framework of the micromagnetic model, we show that the magnetization reversal is described by a hindered domain wall movement. This conclusion from a global analysis is supported by magnetic force microscopy, by imaging the domain evolution in the magnetization process. The smallest stable magnetic entity is found to be of the order of $150\phantom{\rule{0.3em}{0ex}}\mathrm{nm}$. The excessive number of grain boundaries due to the nanometer length scale of the grain size, in addition to possible defects within the grains, is expected to be the key to the excellent magnetic properties and the observed magnetization reversal mechanism.

Nanotechnology and its role in agro-ecosystem: a strategic perspective
Growth of epitaxial SmCo5 films on Cr∕ MgO (100)
Although the hard magnetic SmCo5 phase has very attractive and well-known intrinsic magnetic properties, it has not been grown as an epitaxial thin film, so far. This letter reports the epitaxial growth of SmCo5 films by pulsed-laser deposition on Cr(100) buffered MgO(100) single-crystal substrates. The phase purity, crystal structure, epitaxial relation to the substrate, and magnetic properties have been determined by careful energy-dispersive x-ray analysis, pole figure measurements, transmission electron microscopy, and vibrating sample magnetometry. Compared to the formerly studied Sm2Co7 films, the preparation of the SmCo5 phase improves the remanent magnetization by 38%.Although the hard magnetic SmCo5 phase has very attractive and well-known intrinsic magnetic properties, it has not been grown as an epitaxial thin film, so far. This letter reports the epitaxial growth of SmCo5 films by pulsed-laser deposition on Cr(100) buffered MgO(100) single-crystal substrates. The phase purity, crystal structure, epitaxial relation to the substrate, and magnetic properties have been determined by careful energy-dispersive x-ray analysis, pole figure measurements, transmission electron microscopy, and vibrating sample magnetometry. Compared to the formerly studied Sm2Co7 films, the preparation of the SmCo5 phase improves the remanent magnetization by 38%.

Development and Genetic Characterization of A Novel Herbicide (Imazethapyr) Tolerant Mutant in Rice (Oryza sativa L.)
Genetic variability, heritability and correlation coefficients of yield and its component traits in basmati rice (Oryza sativa L.).
Functional characterization of the Aspergillus nidulans glucosylceramide pathway reveals that LCB Δ8‐desaturation and C9‐methylation are relevant to filamentous growth …
C8‐desaturated and C9‐methylated glucosylceramide (GlcCer) is a fungal‐specific sphingolipid that plays an important role in the growth and virulence of many species. In this work, we investigated the contribution of Aspergillus nidulans sphingolipid Δ8‐desaturase (SdeA), sphingolipid C9‐methyltransferases (SmtA/SmtB) and glucosylceramide synthase (GcsA) to fungal phenotypes, sensitivity to Psd1 defensin and Galleria mellonella virulence. We showed that ΔsdeA accumulated C8‐saturated and unmethylated GlcCer, while gcsA deletion impaired GlcCer synthesis. Although increased levels of unmethylated GlcCer were observed in smtA and smtB mutants, ΔsmtA and wild‐type cells showed a similar 9,Me‐GlcCer content, reduced by 50% in the smtB disruptant. The compromised 9,Me‐GlcCer production in the ΔsmtB strain was not accompanied by reduced filamentation or defects in cell polarity. When combined with the smtA deletion, smtB repression significantly increased unmethylated GlcCer levels and compromised filamentous growth. Furthermore, sdeA and gcsA mutants displayed growth defects and raft mislocalization, which were accompanied by reduced neutral lipids levels and attenuated G. mellonella virulence in the ΔgcsA strain. Finally, ΔsdeA and ΔgcsA showed increased resistance to Psd1, suggesting that GlcCer synthesis and fungal sphingoid base structure specificities are relevant not only to differentiation but also to proper recognition by this antifungal defensin.

Intrathecal buprenorphine versus fentanyl as adjuvant to 0.75% ropivacaine in lower limb surgeries
Background and Aims: This study aims to compare the anesthesia characteristics between buprenorphine and fentanyl when added as an adjuvant to intrathecal ropivaciane in an attempt to prolong the duration of spinal anesthesia. Material and Methods: The present prospective double-blind study was undertaken on ninety American Society of Anesthesiologist I and II patients between 18 and 60 years of age undergoing subarachnoid block for lower limb surgery. Group I (n = 30) patients were administered 3 ml of intrathecal solution (2.8 ml of 0.75% ropivacaine + 0.2 ml of isotonic sodium chloride), while Groups II and III patients (n = 30 each) received 2.8 ml 0.75% ropivacaine + 0.2 ml buprenorphine (60 μg) and 2.8 ml 0.75% ropivacaine + 0.2 ml fentanyl (10 μg), respectively. Following parameters were observed: Onset times and duration of sensory and motor block, time to first analgesic use, total dose of rescue analgesia, intra- and post-operative pain scores based on visual analog scale, sedation scores, hemodynamic parameters, and side effects if any. Data were analyzed by appropriate statistical tests and P < 0.05 were considered significant. Results: Time to onset of sensory and motor block in all the three groups was comparable. However, duration of sensory block was significantly prolonged in Groups II and III in comparison to Group I (P < 0.05) and it was the longest in Group II (P < 0.05). The duration of motor blockade was similar in all the three groups. The time to first analgesic dose was also significantly prolonged in Groups II and III as compared to Group I (P < 0.05) but was comparable between Groups II and III. Intra- and post-operative hemodynamic parameters, as well as side effects, were comparable. Conclusion: Addition of buprenorphine and fentanyl as adjuvants to intrathecal 0.75% ropivacaine prolongs postoperative pain relief without causing any increase in the duration of motor blockade but buprenorphine is better as compared to fentanyl in prolonging the duration of sensory block and achieving a better outcome in terms of pain relief.

Characterization and radiative impact of dust aerosols over northwestern part of India: a case study during a severe dust storm
Genetic variability studies for morphological and yield traits in Dolichos bean (Lablab purpureus L.)
Thirty genotypes of Dolichos bean (Lablab purpureus) were evaluated to study the genetic variability on yield, yield contributing and related characters viz. days to 50% flowering, days to first pod set, days to maturity, number of pods per cluster, pod length, width of pod, weight of 10 green pods, number of single podded clusters per plant, number of pods per plant and protein content. The range, genotypic and phenotypic coefficient of variation, heritability, genetic advance and correlation were calculated. The genotypes showed considerable amount of variability for all the traits. The highest and lowest coefficient of variation was observed for single podded clusters per plant and protein content respectively. Little or no difference between the phenotypic and genotypic coefficients of variability in the expression of various horticultural traits studied for viz. protein content, days to 50% flowering, days to first pod set, pod length, pod weight, weight of 10 green pods and days to maturity, indicated that these were less influenced by environment. Phenotypic coefficient of variation was high for the single podded clusters per plant and the lowest phenotypic coefficient of variation was observed in protein content. Days to 50% flowering, pod length, width of pod, weight of 10 green pods accounted for higher heritability and higher genetic advance which suggests the role of additive gene action in the expression of these characters and could be improved through selection. Significant positive phenotypic correlations were observed between yield other yield components viz. days to first pod set, days to 50 per cent flowering, number of pods per plant, weight of 10 green pods and length of pod. In contrast, the correlation between yield and protein content of pods was significantly negative. The genotypes used in the study are of diverse nature and can be used in the breeding programme for development of superior genotypes in Dolichos bean.

Epitaxial growth of highly coercive Sm–Co thin films using pulsed laser deposition
Hard magnetic materials with a uniaxial magnetocrystalline anisotropy can be most efficiently used if the easy axis is well aligned along one crystallographic direction in the entire sample volume. Epitaxial growth is one suitable method to achieve this aim and therefore Sm–Co thin films on Cr-buffered single-crystal MgO (100) substrates were deposited. Pulsed laser deposition from elemental Sm and Co targets was used to prepare films of nominal Sm2Co7 stoichiometry. Pole figure measurements and magnetization measurements reveal an epitaxial growth of Cr on MgO onto which the c axis of the Sm–Co layer is aligned in plane, viz., MgO(001)[100]‖Cr(001)[110]‖Sm–Co(110)[001]. At higher deposition temperatures an additional Sm–Co (1 1 16) texture was observed. This corresponds to an additional epitaxial orientation relation, where the c axis is tilted 60° out of the substrate plane. However, at low deposition temperatures and with smaller pulse repetition rates a reduction in the amount of this unwanted compone...

Adsorptive capacity of sawdust for the adsorption of MB dye and designing of two-stage batch adsorber
Abstract The use of low-cost locally available adsorbent, sawdust for the removal of methylene blue (MB) dye in a batch adsorber system has been investigated. The experimental data fitted best in Langmuir isotherm as compared to Freundlich and Temkin isotherms, showing maximum adsorption capacity of 76.92 mg/g. The study revealed that the adsorption of MB dye onto sawdust follows pseudo-second-order kinetic model and the same has been used in design of a two-stage batch adsorber by minimizing total contact time to attain a fixed percentage of MB dye removal. The minimum contact time required for the removal of MB dye with 99% efficiency has been found as 37.54 min.

Effect of pinching and growth retardants on flowering and yield of African marigold (Tagetes erecta L.) var. Pusa Narangi Gainda
The effects of different chemicals treatment on postharvest cut flower quality of hybrid lily cultivar ‘Eyeliner’ were investigated. Lily stems were harvested when the first flower bud showed full colour. A whole stem (leaf and bud) sprayed with water (control) and with a growth regulator solutions containing TDZ (1&2ppm), BA (25 ppm), GA3 (25 ppm), BA (50 ppm) , GA3  (50 ppm), BA +GA3 (25ppm +25 ppm), BA+GA3 (50ppm +50 ppm), SAMRAS (2&4mlL-1), Agri-Herbo-99 (1&2ml L-1) and Super Gibbre (1&2ml L-1). After the treatments, each stem was then maintained for postharvest evaluation in an individual 500 ml conical flask with 300 ml of normal tap water.  Within each treatment, the numbers of buds per stem were kept constant as possible for ease of data recording. In general, BA alone or in combination with GA3 treatments significantly delayed the flower bud opening. Leaf yellowing and flower senescence was substantially delayed up to one week when cut flowers were sprayed with a solution containing TDZ (2ppm). Application of BA @ 50 ppm significantly delayed total chlorophyll (a+b) degradation after 6 and 9 days. After 3 days sharp increase in total chlorophyll content was found when cut stems were sprayed with 1 ppm TDZ and slightly declined after 6 and 9 days. In conclusion, TDZ @ 2 ppm not only delayed leaf yellowing but also reduced onset of petal senescence in Lilium cut flowers. BA was able to delay the chlorophyll degradation.

DONE