Security testing: A survey
Extending access control models with break-glass
Access control models are usually static, i.e, permissions are granted based on a policy that only changes seldom. Especially for scenarios in health care and disaster management, a more flexible support of access control, i.e., the underlying policy, is needed.
 Break-glass is one approach for such a flexible support of policies which helps to prevent system stagnation that could harm lives or otherwise result in losses. Today, break-glass techniques are usually added on top of standard access control solutions in an ad-hoc manner and, therefore, lack an integration into the underlying access control paradigm and the systems' access control enforcement architecture.
 We present an approach for integrating, in a fine-grained manner, break-glass strategies into standard access control models and their accompanying enforcement architecture. This integration provides means for specifying break-glass policies precisely and supporting model-driven development techniques based on such policies.

SecureBPMN: Modeling and enforcing access control requirements in business processes
Modern enterprise systems have to comply to regulations such as Basel III resulting in complex security requirements. These requirements need to be modeled at design-time and enforced at runtime. Moreover, modern enterprise systems are often business-process driven, i.e., the system behavior is described as high-level business processes that are executed by a business process execution engine.
 Consequently, there is a need for an integrated and tool-supported methodology that allows for specifying and enforcing compliance and security requirements for business process-driven enterprise systems.
 In this paper, we present a tool chain supporting both the design-time modeling as well as the run-time enforcement of security requirements for business process-driven systems.

HOL-OCL: a formal proof environment for UML/OCL
The HOL-OCL Book
HOL-OCL is an interactive proof environment for the Object Constraint Language (OCL). It is implemented as a shallow embedding of OCL into the Higher-order Logic (HOL) instance of the interactive theorem prover Isabelle. HOL-OCL defines a machine-checked formalization of the semantics as described in the standard for OCL 2.0. This conservative, shallow embedding of UML/OCL into Isabelle/HOL includes support for typed, extensible UML data models supporting inheritance and subtyping inside the typed lambda-calculus with parametric polymorphism. As a consequence of conservativity with respect to higher-order logic (HOL), we can guarantee the consistency of the semantic model. Moreover, HOL-OCL provides several derived calculi for UML/OCL that allow for formal derivations establishing the validity of UML/OCL formulae. Elementary automated support for such proofs is also provided top

A proposal for a formal OCL semantics in Isabelle/HOL
On Theorem Prover-based Testing
A specification-based test case generation method for UML/OCL
HOL-Z 2.0: A proof environment for Z-specifications
We present a new proof environment for the specification language Z. The basis is a semantic representation of Z in a structure-preserving, shallow embedding in Isabelle/HOL. On top of the embedding, new proof support for the Z schema calculus and for proof structuring are developed. Thus, we integrate Z into a well-known and trusted theorem prover with advanced deduction technology such as higher-order rewriting, tableaux-based provers and arithmetic decision procedures. A further achievement of this work is the integration of our embedding into a new tool-chain providing a Z-oriented type checker, documentation facilities and macro support for refinement proofs; as a result, the gap has been closed between a logical embedding proven correct and a tool suited for applications of non-trivial size.

Metamodel-based UML notations for domain-specific languages
We present a metamodel-based approach for specifying UML notations for domain-specific modeling languages. Traditionally, domain specific languages are either defined by UML profiles or using metamodels. We provide a generic integration of these two methods supporting arbitrary UML profiles and metamodels. Our approach provides a bi-directional mapping between the UML notation and the metamodel of the domain specific language. We use OCL constraints that are embedded into the metamodel, for describing the mapping between the UML notation and the metamodel. Moreover, we describe an implementation, as ArgoUML-plugin, for arbitrary SecureUML dialects.

Attribute-based encryption with break-glass
On the static analysis of hybrid mobile apps
An approach to modular and testable security models of real-world health-care applications
We present a generic modular policy modelling framework and instantiate it with a substantial case study for model-based testing of some key security mechanisms of applications and services of the NPfIT. NPfIT, the National Programme for IT, is a very large-scale development project aiming to modernise the IT infrastructure of the NHS in England. Consisting of heterogeneous and distributed applications, it is an ideal target for model-based testing techniques of a large system exhibiting critical security features.
 We model the four information governance principles, comprising a role-based access control model, as well as policy rules governing the concepts of patient consent, sealed envelopes and legitimate relationships. The model is given in Higher-order Logic (HOL) and processed together with suitable test specifications in the TestGen system, that generates test sequences according to them. Particular emphasis is put on the modular description of security policies and their generic combination and its consequences for model-based testing.

Symbolic test case generation for primitive recursive functions
Verified firewall policy transformations for test case generation
We present an optimization technique for model-based generation of test cases for firewalls. Starting from a formal model for firewall policies in higher-order logic, we derive a collection of semantics-preserving policy transformation rules and an algorithm that optimizes the specification with respect of the number of test cases required for path coverage. The correctness of the rules and the algorithm is established by formal proofs in Isabelle/HOL. Finally, we use the normalized policies to generate test cases with the domain-specific firewall testing tool HOL-TestGen/FW. The resulting procedure is characterized by a gain in efficiency of two orders of magnitude. It can handle configurations with hundreds of rules such as frequently occur in practice. Our approach can be seen as an instance of a methodology to tame inherent state-space explosions in test case generation for security policies.

A model transformation semantics and analysis methodology for SecureUML
Test-sequence generation with HOL-TestGen with an application to firewall testing
HOL-TestGen: An Interactive Test-case Generation Framework.
We present HOL-TestGen, an extensible test environment for specification-based testing build upon the proof assistant Isabelle. HOL-TestGen leverages the semi-automated generation of test theorems (a form of partitioning the test input space), and their refinement to concrete test-data, as well as the automatic generation of a test driver for the execution and test result verification. HOL-TestGen can also be understood as a unifying technical and con- ceptual framework for presenting and investigating the variety of unit test and sequence test techniques in a logically consistent way.

An extensible encoding of object-oriented data models in HOL
A screening test for disclosed vulnerabilities in foss components
Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) components are ubiquitous in both proprietary and open source applications. Each time a vulnerability is disclosed in a FOSS component, a software vendor using this component in an application must decide whether to update the FOSS component, patch the application itself, or just do nothing as the vulnerability is not applicable to the older version of the FOSS component used. This is particularly challenging for enterprise software vendors that consume thousands of FOSS components and offer more than a decade of support and security fixes for their applications. Moreover, customers expect vendors to react quickly on disclosed vulnerabilities—in case of widely discussed vulnerabilities such as Heartbleed, within hours. To address this challenge, we propose a screening test: a novel, automatic method based on thin slicing, for estimating quickly whether a given vulnerability is present in a consumed FOSS component by looking across its entire repository. We show that our screening test scales to large open source projects (e.g., Apache Tomcat, Spring Framework, Jenkins) that are routinely used by large software vendors, scanning thousands of commits and hundred thousands lines of code in a matter of minutes. Further, we provide insights on the empirical probability that, on the above mentioned projects, a potentially vulnerable component might not actually be vulnerable after all.

DONE