Analyzing (social media) networks with NodeXL
We present NodeXL, an extendible toolkit for network overview, discovery and exploration implemented as an add-in to the Microsoft Excel 2007 spreadsheet software. We demonstrate NodeXL data analysis and visualization features with a social media data sample drawn from an enterprise intranet social network. A sequence of NodeXL operations from data import to computation of network statistics and refinement of network visualization through sorting, filtering, and clustering functions is described. These operations reveal sociologically relevant differences in the patterns of interconnection among employee participants in the social media space. The tool and method can be broadly applied.

Interacting with predictions: Visual inspection of black-box machine learning models
Understanding predictive models, in terms of interpreting and identifying actionable insights, is a challenging task. Often the importance of a feature in a model is only a rough estimate condensed into one number. However, our research goes beyond these naïve estimates through the design and implementation of an interactive visual analytics system, Prospector. By providing interactive partial dependence diagnostics, data scientists can understand how features affect the prediction overall. In addition, our support for localized inspection allows data scientists to understand how and why specific datapoints are predicted as they are, as well as support for tweaking feature values and seeing how the prediction responds. Our system is then evaluated using a case study involving a team of data scientists improving predictive models for detecting the onset of diabetes from electronic medical records.

Iterative refinement of cohorts using visual exploration and data analytics
A growing number of longitudinal cohort studies are generating data with extensive patient observations across multiple timepoints. Such data offers promising opportunities to better understand the progression of diseases. However, these observations are usually treated as general events in existing visual analysis tools. As a result, their capabilities in modeling disease progression are not fully utilized. To fill this gap, we designed and implemented ThreadStates, an interactive visual analytics tool for the exploration of longitudinal patient cohort data. The focus of ThreadStates is to identify the states of disease progression by learning from observation data in a human-in-the-loop manner. We propose a novel Glyph Matrix design and combine it with a scatter plot to enable seamless identification, observation, and refinement of states. The disease progression patterns are then revealed in terms of state transitions using Sankey-based visualizations. We employ sequence clustering techniques to find patient groups with distinctive progression patterns, and to reveal the association between disease progression and patient-level features. The design and development were driven by a requirement analysis and iteratively refined based on feedback from domain experts over the course of a 10-month design study. Case studies and expert interviews demonstrate that ThreadStates can successively summarize disease states, reveal disease progression, and compare patient groups.

Balancing systematic and flexible exploration of social networks
Social network analysis (SNA) has emerged as a powerful method for understanding the importance of relationships in networks. However, interactive exploration of networks is currently challenging because: (1) it is difficult to find patterns and comprehend the structure of networks with many nodes and links, and (2) current systems are often a medley of statistical methods and overwhelming visual output which leaves many analysts uncertain about how to explore in an orderly manner. This results in exploration that is largely opportunistic. Our contributions are techniques to help structural analysts understand social networks more effectively. We present SocialAction, a system that uses attribute ranking and coordinated views to help users systematically examine numerous SNA measures. Users can (1) flexibly iterate through visualizations of measures to gain an overview, filter nodes, and find outliers, (2) aggregate networks using link structure, find cohesive subgroups, and focus on communities of interest, and (3) untangle networks by viewing different link types separately, or find patterns across different link types using a matrix overview. For each operation, a stable node layout is maintained in the network visualization so users can make comparisons. SocialAction offers analysts a strategy beyond opportunism, as it provides systematic, yet flexible, techniques for exploring social networks

“Search, show context, expand on demand”: Supporting large graph exploration with degree-of-interest
A common goal in graph visualization research is the design of novel techniques for displaying an overview of an entire graph. However, there are many situations where such an overview is not relevant or practical for users, as analyzing the global structure may not be related to the main task of the users that have semi-specific information needs. Furthermore, users accessing large graph databases through an online connection or users running on less powerful (mobile) hardware simply do not have the resources needed to compute these overviews. In this paper, we advocate an interaction model that allows users to remotely browse the immediate context graph around a specific node of interest. We show how Furnas' original degree of interest function can be adapted from trees to graphs and how we can use this metric to extract useful contextual subgraphs, control the complexity of the generated visualization and direct users to interesting datapoints in the context. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach with an exploration of a dense online database containing over 3 million legal citations.

Integrating statistics and visualization: case studies of gaining clarity during exploratory data analysis
Although both statistical methods and visualizations have been used by network analysts, exploratory data analysis remains a challenge. We propose that a tight integration of these technologies in an interactive exploratory tool could dramatically speed insight development. To test the power of this integrated approach, we created a novel social network analysis tool, SocialAction, and conducted four long-term case studies with domain experts, each working on unique data sets with unique problems. The structured replicated case studies show that the integrated approach in SocialAction led to significant discoveries by a political analyst, a bibliometrician, a healthcare consultant, and a counter-terrorism researcher. Our contributions demonstrate that the tight integration of statistics and visualizations improves exploratory data analysis, and that our evaluation methodology for long-term case studies captures the research strategies of data analysts.

Progressive visual analytics: User-driven visual exploration of in-progress analytics
As datasets grow and analytic algorithms become more complex, the typical workflow of analysts launching an analytic, waiting for it to complete, inspecting the results, and then re-Iaunching the computation with adjusted parameters is not realistic for many real-world tasks. This paper presents an alternative workflow, progressive visual analytics, which enables an analyst to inspect partial results of an algorithm as they become available and interact with the algorithm to prioritize subspaces of interest. Progressive visual analytics depends on adapting analytical algorithms to produce meaningful partial results and enable analyst intervention without sacrificing computational speed. The paradigm also depends on adapting information visualization techniques to incorporate the constantly refining results without overwhelming analysts and provide interactions to support an analyst directing the analytic. The contributions of this paper include: a description of the progressive visual analytics paradigm; design goals for both the algorithms and visualizations in progressive visual analytics systems; an example progressive visual analytics system (Progressive Insights) for analyzing common patterns in a collection of event sequences; and an evaluation of Progressive Insights and the progressive visual analytics paradigm by clinical researchers analyzing electronic medical records.

Seq2seq-Vis: A Visual Debugging Tool for Sequence-to-Sequence Models
Neural sequence-to-sequence models have proven to be accurate and robust for many sequence prediction tasks, and have become the standard approach for automatic translation of text. The models work with a five-stage blackbox pipeline that begins with encoding a source sequence to a vector space and then decoding out to a new target sequence. This process is now standard, but like many deep learning methods remains quite difficult to understand or debug. In this work, we present a visual analysis tool that allows interaction and “what if”-style exploration of trained sequence-to-sequence models through each stage of the translation process. The aim is to identify which patterns have been learned, to detect model errors, and to probe the model with counterfactual scenario. We demonstrate the utility of our tool through several real-world sequence-to-sequence use cases on large-scale models.

INFUSE: Interactive feature selection for predictive modeling of high dimensional data
Predictive modeling techniques are increasingly being used by data scientists to understand the probability of predicted outcomes. However, for data that is high-dimensional, a critical step in predictive modeling is determining which features should be included in the models. Feature selection algorithms are often used to remove non-informative features from models. However, there are many different classes of feature selection algorithms. Deciding which one to use is problematic as the algorithmic output is often not amenable to user interpretation. This limits the ability for users to utilize their domain expertise during the modeling process. To improve on this limitation, we developed INFUSE, a novel visual analytics system designed to help analysts understand how predictive features are being ranked across feature selection algorithms, cross-validation folds, and classifiers. We demonstrate how our system can lead to important insights in a case study involving clinical researchers predicting patient outcomes from electronic medical records.

Frequence: Interactive mining and visualization of temporal frequent event sequences
Extracting insights from temporal event sequences is an important challenge. In particular, mining frequent patterns from event sequences is a desired capability for many domains. However, most techniques for mining frequent patterns are ineffective for real-world data that may be low-resolution, concurrent, or feature many types of events, or the algorithms may produce results too complex to interpret. To address these challenges, we propose Frequence, an intelligent user interface that integrates data mining and visualization in an interactive hierarchical information exploration system for finding frequent patterns from longitudinal event sequences. Frequence features a novel frequent sequence mining algorithm to handle multiple levels-of-detail, temporal context, concurrency, and outcome analysis. Frequence also features a visual interface designed to support insights, and support exploration of patterns of the level-of-detail relevant to users. Frequence's effectiveness is demonstrated with two use cases: medical research mining event sequences from clinical records to understand the progression of a disease, and social network research using frequent sequences from Foursquare to understand the mobility of people in an urban environment.

Clustervision: Visual supervision of unsupervised clustering
Clustering, the process of grouping together similar items into distinct partitions, is a common type of unsupervised machine learning that can be useful for summarizing and aggregating complex multi-dimensional data. However, data can be clustered in many ways, and there exist a large body of algorithms designed to reveal different patterns. While having access to a wide variety of algorithms is helpful, in practice, it is quite difficult for data scientists to choose and parameterize algorithms to get the clustering results relevant for their dataset and analytical tasks. To alleviate this problem, we built Clustervision, a visual analytics tool that helps ensure data scientists find the right clustering among the large amount of techniques and parameters available. Our system clusters data using a variety of clustering techniques and parameters and then ranks clustering results utilizing five quality metrics. In addition, users can guide the system to produce more relevant results by providing task-relevant constraints on the data. Our visual user interface allows users to find high quality clustering results, explore the clusters using several coordinated visualization techniques, and select the cluster result that best suits their task. We demonstrate this novel approach using a case study with a team of researchers in the medical domain and showcase that our system empowers users to choose an effective representation of their complex data.

A methodology for interactive mining and visual analysis of clinical event patterns using electronic health record data
Mining and exploring care pathways from electronic medical records with visual analytics
Diversity among enterprise online communities: collaborating, teaming, and innovating through social media
There is a growing body of research into the adoption and use of social software in enterprises. However, less is known about how groups, such as communities, use and appropriate these technologies, and the implications for community structures. In a study of 188 very active online enterprise communities, we found systematic differences in size, demographics and participation, aligned with differences in community types. Different types of communities differed in their appropriation of social software tools to create and use shared resources, and build relationships. We propose implications for design of community support features, services for potential community members, and organizations looking to derive value from online groups.

Same places, same things, same people? Mining user similarity on social media
In this work we examine nine different sources for user similarity as reflected by activity in social media applications. We suggest a classification of these sources into three categories: people, things, and places. Lists of similar people returned by the nine sources are found to be highly different from each other as well as from the list of people the user is familiar with, suggesting that aggregation of sources may be valuable. Evaluation of the sources and their aggregates points at their usefulness across different scenarios, such as information discovery and expertise location, and also highlights sources and aggregates that are particularly valuable for inferring user similarity.

Coping with volume and variety in temporal event sequences: Strategies for sharpening analytic focus
The growing volume and variety of data presents both opportunities and challenges for visual analytics. Addressing these challenges is needed for big data to provide valuable insights and novel solutions for business, security, social media, and healthcare. In the case of temporal event sequence analytics it is the number of events in the data and variety of temporal sequence patterns that challenges users of visual analytic tools. This paper describes 15 strategies for sharpening analytic focus that analysts can use to reduce the data volume and pattern variety. Four groups of strategies are proposed: (1) extraction strategies, (2) temporal folding, (3) pattern simplification strategies, and (4) iterative strategies. For each strategy, we provide examples of the use and impact of this strategy on volume and/or variety. Examples are selected from 20 case studies gathered from either our own work, the literature, or based on email interviews with individuals who conducted the analyses and developers who observed analysts using the tools. Finally, we discuss how these strategies might be combined and report on the feedback from 10 senior event sequence analysts.

Systematic yet flexible discovery: guiding domain experts through exploratory data analysis
During exploratory data analysis, visualizations are often useful for making sense of complex data sets. However, as data sets increase in size and complexity, static information visualizations decrease in comprehensibility. Interactive techniques can yield valuable discoveries, but current data analysis tools typically support only opportunistic exploration that may be inefficient and incomplete.
 We present a refined architecture that uses systematic yet flexible (SYF) design goals to guide domain expert users through complex exploration of data over days, weeks and months. The SYF system aims to support exploratory data analysis with some of the simplicity of an e-commerce check-out while providing added flexibility to pursue insights. The SYF system provides an overview of the analysis process, suggests unexplored states, allows users to annotate useful states, supports collaboration, and enables reuse of successful strategies. The affordances of the SYF system are demonstrated by integrating it into a social network analysis tool employed by social scientists and intelligence analysts. The SYF system is a tool-independent component and can be incorporated into other data analysis tools.

Matrixflow: temporal network visual analytics to track symptom evolution during disease progression
OBJECTIVE
To develop a visual analytic system to help medical professionals improve disease diagnosis by providing insights for understanding disease progression.


METHODS
We develop MatrixFlow, a visual analytic system that takes clinical event sequences of patients as input, constructs time-evolving networks and visualizes them as a temporal flow of matrices. MatrixFlow provides several interactive features for analysis: 1) one can sort the events based on the similarity in order to accentuate underlying cluster patterns among those events; 2) one can compare co-occurrence events over time and across cohorts through additional line graph visualization.


RESULTS
MatrixFlow is applied to visualize heart failure (HF) symptom events extracted from a large cohort of HF cases and controls (n=50,625), which allows medical experts to reach insights involving temporal patterns and clusters of interest, and compare cohorts in novel ways that may lead to improved disease diagnoses.


CONCLUSIONS
MatrixFlow is an interactive visual analytic system that allows users to quickly discover patterns in clinical event sequences. By unearthing the patterns hidden within and displaying them to medical experts, users become empowered to make decisions influenced by historical patterns.

Supporting iterative cohort construction with visual temporal queries
Many researchers across diverse disciplines aim to analyze the behavior of cohorts whose behaviors are recorded in large event databases. However, extracting cohorts from databases is a difficult yet important step, often overlooked in many analytical solutions. This is especially true when researchers wish to restrict their cohorts to exhibit a particular temporal pattern of interest. In order to fill this gap, we designed COQUITO, a visual interface that assists users defining cohorts with temporal constraints. COQUITO was designed to be comprehensible to domain experts with no preknowledge of database queries and also to encourage exploration. We then demonstrate the utility of COQUITO via two case studies, involving medical and social media researchers.

Orion: A system for modeling, transformation and visualization of multidimensional heterogeneous networks
The study of complex activities such as scientific production and software development often requires modeling connections among heterogeneous entities including people, institutions, and artifacts. Despite advances in algorithms and visualization techniques for understanding such social networks, the process of constructing network models and performing exploratory analysis remains difficult and time-consuming. In this article, we present Orion, a system for interactive modeling, transformation, and visualization of network data. Orion’s interface enables the rapid manipulation of large graphs—including the specification of complex linking relationships—using simple drag-and-drop operations with desired node types. Orion maps these user interactions to statements in a declarative workflow language that incorporates both relational operators (e.g. selection, aggregation, and joins) and network analytics (e.g. centrality measures). We demonstrate how these features enable analysts to flexibly construct and compare networks in domains such as online health communities, electronic medical records, academic collaboration, and distributed software development.

DONE