Enhancement of speech degraded by coherent and incoherent noise using a cross-spectral estimator
This correspondence deals with the problem of noise reduction for hands-free communications when two microphones are in use. We consider two methods usually adopted in the case of uncorrelated noises. The first one is based on the coherence function and the second on Wiener filtering. We propose to modify the previous methods by including a cross power spectrum estimation to take the presence of some correlated noise components into account. Objective results show a significant improvement in comparison with the basic structures.

Optimizing speech enhancement by exploiting masking properties of the human ear
The problem of speech enhancement and mainly noise reduction in speech remains a key-point of hand-free telecommunications. A great number of techniques have been already put forward and for a few years an auditory model has been investigated in noise reduction. A new approach for enhancing a speech signal degraded by uncorrelated stationary additive noise is developed. In this approach the simultaneous masking effect of the human ear is exploited. Two states "noise masked/noise unmasked" are derived from a noise masking threshold computed using a rough estimate of the speech signal. Then a speech signal estimator is proposed as a weighted sum of the individual estimators in each state. The gain in the signal to noise ratio (SNR) and a distortion measure indicate some improvement in real noise conditions. Subjectively this improvement is noticeable only at high input SNRs.

Using power level difference for near field dual-microphone speech enhancement
SNR-dependent compression of enhanced Mel sub-band energies for compensation of noise effects on MFCC features
Speech enhancement using a wavelet thresholding method based on symmetric Kullback–Leibler divergence
CVSS-based security metrics for quantitative analysis of attack graphs
Attack graphs are efficient tools for detecting possible attacks in the network and their causes. By analyzing attack graphs and eliminating causes of attacks in the networks, we can immune networks against known intrusions. The main shortcoming of attack graphs is that they give no information about the damages of the possible attacks in the network. On the other hand by attack graphs, we can only analyze network security qualitatively. In this paper we propose a method that can measure the impact of each shown attack in the attack graph on the security parameters (Confidentiality, Availability and Integrity) of the network. In the proposed approach we have defined some security metrics by combining CVSS framework and attack graph. The main problem with the existing approaches is that, they cannot consider interrelation between vulnerabilities of the network efficiently. Our defined security metrics can address this issue and help us to assess network security quantitatively by analyzing attack graphs. By applying proposed security metrics on each network's attack graph we can find the most perilous vulnerability in the network.

Overload control in SIP networks using no explicit feedback: A window based approach
A trust management scheme for IoT-enabled environmental health/accessibility monitoring services
New class‐dependent feature transformation for intrusion detection systems
Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) mainly focus on the original features extracted from the communications networks without complex pre-processing. In this paper, we propose new methods for class-dependent feature transformation to improve the accuracy of the IDS. In the previously known class-dependent feature transformation methods, the mapping process is accomplished by employing separate mapping matrices for each class of the dataset. In the training phase, samples of each class is mapped using only the corresponding matrix, whereas, in the test phase, each sample is mapped using all transformation matrices. This may lead to inaccuracy in classification. We modify the training and test phases of the class-dependent methods to extract more information from the dataset in the training phase that the other class-dependent methods ignore. Unlike the previously known class-dependent methods, the training and test phases of our proposed methods are very similar. We evaluate the performance of the proposed methods by measuring Mutual Information, and Maximum-Relevancy Minimum-Redundancy Information on a benchmark dataset for intrusion detection, namely NSL-KDD dataset, and on three different types of classifiers: distance-based, neural network-based, and decision tree-based classifiers. The experimental results demonstrate that the classifiers trained on the dataset transformed by our proposed feature transformation methods are more accurate in detecting intruders. In all experiments, the proposed methods perform better than their peers in increasing the classifier accuracy and reducing the false alarm of the detection process. Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Noise cross PSD estimation using phase information in diffuse noise field
Improving linear discriminant analysis with artificial immune system-based evolutionary algorithms
Controlling overload in SIP proxies: An adaptive window based approach using no explicit feedback
The performance of SIP servers is largely degraded during overload conditions due to the built in message re-transmission mechanism of SIP. In this paper we propose adistributed and end-to-end adaptive window based overload control algorithm, by which upstream SIP servers control the amount of calls that are forwarded to a downstream SIP server in an attempt to prevent it from being overloaded. Our scheme uses the call establishment delay as a measure of the amount of load on the downstream server and unlike other methods does not rely on any explicit feedback from the downstream server. As a result the proposed algorithm imposes no additional complexity on the downstream server. Moreover, it requires no additional processing to be done at the downstream server, which is overloaded, making it a very robust approach. Using simulations we show that our proposed method achieves higher throughput than a commonly used overload control algorithm and is also fair among different upstream servers. It is also shown that compared with approaches using explicit feedback, the performance of our scheme is less sensitive to link delays. Furthermore, the effect of server queue size is also considered and a simple method for finding an upper bound on the queue size of the downstream server is given.

A new density-based subspace selection method using mutual information for high dimensional outlier detection
Switching structured prediction for simple and complex human activity recognition
Automatic human activity recognition is an integral part of any interactive application involving humans (e.g., human–robot interaction systems). One of the main challenges for activity recognition is the diversity in the way individuals often perform activities. Furthermore, changes in any of the environment factors (i.e., illumination, complex background, human body shapes, viewpoint, etc.) intensify this challenge. In addition, there are different types of activities that robots need to interpret for seamless interaction with humans. Some activities are short, quick, and simple (e.g., sitting), while others may be detailed/complex, and spread throughout a long span of time (e.g., washing mouth). In this article, we recognize the activities within the context of graphical models in a sequence-labeling framework based on skeleton data. We propose a new structured prediction strategy based on probabilistic graphical models (PGMs) to recognize both types of activities (i.e., complex and simple). These activity types are often spanned in very diverse subspaces in the space of all possible activities, which would require different model parameterizations. In order to deal with these parameterization and structural breaks across models, a category-switching scheme is proposed to switch over the models based on the activity types. For parameter optimization, we utilize a distributed structured prediction technique to implement our model in a distributed setting. The method is tested on three widely used datasets (CAD-60, UT-Kinect, and Florence 3-D) that cover both activity types. The results illustrate that our proposed method is able to recognize simple and complex activities while the previous work concentrated on only one of these two main types.

A convolutional neural network model based on neutrosophy for noisy speech recognition
Convolutional neural networks are sensitive to unknown noisy condition in the test phase and so their performance degrades for the noisy data classification task including noisy speech recognition. In this research, a new convolutional neural network (CNN) model with data uncertainty handling; referred as NCNN (Neutrosophic Convolutional Neural Network); is proposed for classification task. Here, speech signals are used as input data and their noise is modeled as uncertainty. In this task, using speech spectrogram, a definition of uncertainty is proposed in neutrosophic (NS) domain. Uncertainty is computed for each Time-frequency point of speech spectrogram as like a pixel. Therefore, uncertainty matrix with the same size of spectrogram is created in NS domain. In the next step, a two parallel paths CNN classification model is proposed. Speech spectrogram is used as input of the first path and uncertainty matrix for the second path. The outputs of two paths are combined to compute the final output of the classifier. To show the effectiveness of the proposed method, it has been compared with conventional CNN on the isolated words of Aurora2 dataset. The proposed method achieves the average accuracy of 85.96 in noisy train data. It is more robust against noises with accuracies 90, 88 and 81 in test sets A, B and C, respectively. Results show that the proposed method outperforms conventional CNN with the improvement of 6, 5 and 2 percentage in test set A, test set B and test sets C, respectively. It means that the proposed method is more robust against noisy data and handle these data effectively.

A fast anomaly detection system using probabilistic artificial immune algorithm capable of learning new attacks
Speech enhancement using a Wiener filtering under signal presence uncertainty
Noise reduction is a key-point of speech enhancement systems in hands-free communications. A number of techniques have been already developed in the frequency domain such as an optimal short-time spectral amplitude estimator proposed by Ephraim and Malah in [1] including the estimation of the a priori signal-to-noise ratio. This approach reduces significantly the disturbing noise and provides enhanced speech with colorless residual noise. In this paper, we propose a technique based on a Wiener filtering under uncertainty of signal presence in the noisy observation. Two different estimators of the a priori signal-to-noise ratio are tested and compared. The main interest of this approach comes from its low complexity.

A framework for SIP intrusion detection and response systems
One of the main goals of moving to Next Generation Networks (NGN) is an integrated access to multimedia services like VoIP, and IPTV. The primary signaling protocol in these multimedia services is Session Initiation Protocol (SIP). This protocol, however, is vulnerable against attacks, which may reduce the Quality of Service (QoS), an important feature in NGN services. One of the most frequent attacks is Denial of Service (DoS), which can easily be generated but its detection is not trivial. In this paper, a framework is proposed to detect Denial of Service attacks and other forms of intrusions, then generate responses accordingly. Our proposed detection engine combines the specification- and anomaly-based intrusion detection techniques. The experimental results demonstrates that the proposed approach can successfully be employed to detect intruders and limit their access. Detection rates and false alarms are reported based on prepared labeled dataset from the actual test-bed

A new wavelet thresholding method for speech enhancement based on symmetric Kullback-Leibler divergence
Performance of wavelet thresholding methods for speech enhancement is dependent on estimating an exact threshold value in the wavelet sub-bands. In this paper, we propose a new method for more exact estimating the threshold value. We proposed to determine the threshold value based on the symmetric Kullback-Leibler divergence between the probability distributions of noisy speech and noise wavelet coefficients. In the next step, we improved this value using segmental SNR. We used some of TIMIT utterances to assess the performance of the proposed threshold. The algorithm is evaluated using the PESQ score and the SNR improvement. In average, we obtain 2db SNR improvement and a PESQ score increase up to 0.7 in comparison to the conventional wavelet thresholding approaches.

An iterative noise cross-PSD estimation for two-microphone speech enhancement
DONE