Speech emotion recognition with deep convolutional neural networks
An energy aware fuzzy approach to unequal clustering in wireless sensor networks
MOFCA: Multi-objective fuzzy clustering algorithm for wireless sensor networks
An energy aware fuzzy unequal clustering algorithm for wireless sensor networks
In order to gather information more efficiently, wireless sensor networks (WSNs) are partitioned into clusters. The most of the proposed clustering algorithms do not consider the location of the base station. This situation causes hot spots problem in multi-hop WSNs. Unequal clustering mechanisms, which are designed by considering the base station location, solve this problem. In this paper, we introduce a fuzzy unequal clustering algorithm (EAUCF) which aims to prolong the lifetime of WSNs. EAUCF adjusts the cluster-head radius considering the residual energy and the distance to the base station parameters of the sensor nodes. This helps decreasing the intra-cluster work of the sensor nodes which are closer to the base station or have lower battery level. We utilize fuzzy logic for handling the uncertainties in cluster-head radius estimation. We compare our algorithm with some popular algorithms in literature, namely LEACH, CHEF and EEUC, according to First Node Dies (FND), Half of the Nodes Alive (HNA) and energy-efficiency metrics. Our simulation results show that EAUCF performs better than the other algorithms in most of the cases. Therefore, EAUCF is a stable and energy-efficient clustering algorithm to be utilized in any real time WSN application.

Fuzzy database modeling
A complete axiomatization for fuzzy functional and multivalued dependencies in fuzzy database relations
In this paper we first introduce a new definition for the conformance of tuples existing in a fuzzy database relation. Then we give the formal definitions of fuzzy functional and multivalued dependencies on the basis of the conformance values presented here. Secondly, we list the inference rules after showing that both fuzzy functional and multivalued dependencies are consistent, that is, they reduce to those of the classic functional and multivalued dependencies when crisp attributes are involved. Finally, we show that the inference rules presented here are sound and complete for the family of functional and multivalued dependencies in fuzzy database relations.

A two-tier distributed fuzzy logic based protocol for efficient data aggregation in multihop wireless sensor networks
This study proposes a two-tier distributed fuzzy logic based protocol (TTDFP) to improve the efficiency of data aggregation operations in multihop wireless sensor networks (WSNs). Clustering is utilized for efficient aggregation requirements in terms of consumed energy. In a clustered network, member (leaf) nodes transmit obtained data to cluster-heads (CHs) and CHs relay received packets to the base station. In multihop wireless networks, this CH-generated transmission occurs over other CHs. Due to the adoption of a multihop topology, hotspots and/or energy-hole problems may arise. This article proposes a TTDFP to extend the lifespan of multihop WSNs by taking the efficiency of clustering and routing phases jointly into account. TTDFP is a distribution-adaptive protocol that runs and scales sensor network applications efficiently. Additionally, along with the two-tier fuzzy logic based protocol, we utilize an optimization framework to tune the parameters used in the fuzzy clustering tier in order to optimize the performance of a given WSN. This paper also includes performance comparisons and experimental evaluations with the selected state-of-the-art algorithms. The experimental results reveal that TTDFP performs better than any other protocols under the same network setup considering metrics used for comparing energy-efficiency and network lifespan of the protocols.

A distributed fault-tolerant topology control algorithm for heterogeneous wireless sensor networks
This paper introduces a distributed fault-tolerant topology control algorithm, called the Disjoint Path Vector (DPV), for heterogeneous wireless sensor networks composed of a large number of sensor nodes with limited energy and computing capability and several supernodes with unlimited energy resources. The DPV algorithm addresses the k-degree Anycast Topology Control problem where the main objective is to assign each sensor's transmission range such that each has at least k-vertex-disjoint paths to supernodes and the total power consumption is minimum. The resulting topologies are tolerant to k-1 node failures in the worst case. We prove the correctness of our approach by showing that topologies generated by DPV are guaranteed to satisfy k-vertex supernode connectivity. Our simulations show that the DPV algorithm achieves up to 4-fold reduction in total transmission power required in the network and 2-fold reduction in maximum transmission power required in a node compared to existing solutions.

An adaptive, energy-aware and distributed fault-tolerant topology-control algorithm for heterogeneous wireless sensor networks
Design and implementation issues in the fuzzy object-oriented data model
IFOOD: an intelligent fuzzy object-oriented database architecture
Next generation information system applications require powerful and intelligent information management that necessitates an efficient interaction between database and knowledge base technologies. It is also important for these applications to incorporate uncertainty in data objects, in integrity constraints, and/or in application. In this study, we propose an intelligent object-oriented database architecture, FOOD, which permits the flexible modeling and querying of complex data and knowledge including uncertainty with powerful retrieval capability.

Handling complex and uncertain information in the ExIFO and NF/sup 2/data models
Using deep learning for mammography classification
Breast biopsies based on the results of mammography and ultrasound have been diagnosed as benign at a rate of approximately 40 to 60 percent. Negative biopsy results have negative impacts on many aspects such as unnecessary operations, fear, pain, and cost. Therefore, there is a need for a more reliable technique to reduce the number of unnecessary biopsies in the diagnosis of breast cancer. So, computer-aided diagnostic methods are very important for doctors to make more accurate decisions and to avoid unnecessary biopsies. For this purpose, we apply deep learning using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) to classify abnormalities as benign or malignant in mammogram images by using two different databases namely, mini-MIAS and BCDR. While mini-MIAS database has valuable information like location of the center of abnormality and radius of the circle that surrounds the abnormality, BCDR database does not have. When we use both dataset as they are, we observe accuracy, precision, recall, and f-score values between around 60% and 72%. In order to improve our results, we take the benefit of preprocessing methods containing cropping, augmentation, and balancing image data. In an effort to crop image data sourced from BCDR, we create a mask to find region of interest. After applying our preprocessing methods over the BCDR dataset, we observe that classification accuracy improves from 65% to around 85%. When we compare the classification accuracy, precision, recall and f-score obtained from the MIAS database with those obtained from the BCDR database we found that after applying preprocessing methods to BCDR dataset, the classification performance become very close to each other for the two datasets.

Named entity recognition experiments on Turkish texts
A fuzzy Petri net model for intelligent databases
Modeling and querying fuzzy spatiotemporal databases
A hybrid named entity recognizer for Turkish
Spatio-temporal querying in video databases
A survey of conceptual and logical data models for uncertainty management
Automatic semantic content extraction in videos using a fuzzy ontology and rule-based model
Recent increase in the use of video-based applications has revealed the need for extracting the content in videos. Raw data and low-level features alone are not sufficient to fulfill the user 's needs; that is, a deeper understanding of the content at the semantic level is required. Currently, manual techniques, which are inefficient, subjective and costly in time and limit the querying capabilities, are being used to bridge the gap between low-level representative features and high-level semantic content. Here, we propose a semantic content extraction system that allows the user to query and retrieve objects, events, and concepts that are extracted automatically. We introduce an ontology-based fuzzy video semantic content model that uses spatial/temporal relations in event and concept definitions. This metaontology definition provides a wide-domain applicable rule construction standard that allows the user to construct an ontology for a given domain. In addition to domain ontologies, we use additional rule definitions (without using ontology) to lower spatial relation computation cost and to be able to define some complex situations more effectively. The proposed framework has been fully implemented and tested on three different domains. We have obtained satisfactory precision and recall rates for object, event and concept extraction.

DONE