Doubly fed induction generator using back-to-back PWM converters and its application to variable-speed wind-energy generation
The paper describes the engineering and design of a doubly fed induction generator (DFIG), using back-to-back PWM voltage-source converters in the rotor circuit. A vector-control scheme for the supply-side PWM converter results in independent control of active and reactive power drawn the supply, while ensuring sinusoidal supply currents. Vector control of the rotor-connected converter provides for wide speed-range operation; the vector scheme is embedded in control loops which enable optimal speed tracking for maximum energy capture from the wind. An experimental rig, which represents a 7.5 kW variable speed wind-energy generation system is described, and experimental results are given that illustrate the excellent performance characteristics of the system. The paper considers a grid-connected system; a further paper will describe a stand-alone system.

Matrix converters: A technology review
The matrix converter is an array of controlled semiconductor switches that connects directly the three-phase source to the three-phase load. This converter has several attractive features that have been investigated in the last two decades. In the last few years, an increase in research work has been observed, bringing this topology closer to the industrial application. This paper presents the state-of-the-art view in the development of this converter, starting with a brief historical review. An important part of the paper is dedicated to a discussion of the most important modulation and control strategies developed recently. Special attention is given to present modern methods developed to solve the commutation problem. Some new arrays of power bidirectional switches integrated in a single module are also presented. Finally, this paper includes some practical issues related to the practical application of this technology, like overvoltage protection, use of filters and ride-through capability.

A doubly fed induction generator using back-to-back PWM converters supplying an isolated load from a variable speed wind turbine
A doubly fed induction generator (DFIG) designed to be driven at variable speed from a wind turbine and supplying an isolated load is presented. Two back-to-back PWM voltage-fed inverters connected between the stator and the rotor allow sub- and super-synchronous operation with low distortion currents. The load voltage is maintained at constant frequency and its magnitude is regulated through control of the stator flux of the generator. An auxiliary load is connected in parallel with the main load, and the auxiliary power is controlled to allow the DFIG to track the optimal wind turbine speed for maximum energy capture from the wind. An indirect stator-orientated vector control scheme is used to control the DFIG and this results in constant load voltage and frequency for variations in both load and wind speed. The techniques have been implemented and validated on a 7.5 kW experimental rig.

Advanced power electronic conversion and control system for universal and flexible power management
The future electricity network has to be able to manage energy coming from different grids as well as from renewable energy sources (RES) and other distributed generation (DG) systems. Advanced power electronic converters can provide the means to control power flow and ensure proper and secure operation of future networks. This paper presents analysis, design, and experimental validation of a back-to-back three-phase ac-dc-ac multilevel converter employed for universal and flexible power management (UNIFLEX-PM) of future electrical grids and its advanced control technique. The proposed system has been successfully tested for bidirectional power flow operation with different grid operating conditions such as voltage unbalance, frequency variation, harmonic distortion, and faults due to short circuits.

Open-circuit fault detection and isolation for modular multilevel converter based on sliding mode observer
This paper presents a fault detection and isolation (FDI) method for a Modular Multilevel Converter (MMC). This method can locate an open-circuit faulty device accurately and quickly. Based on a sliding mode observer (SMO) and a switching model of a half bridge, the approach is to assume the location of the fault, modify the observer equation and then compare the measured and observed states to verify, or otherwise, the assumption for possible fault locations. This technique requires no additional measurement elements and can easily be implemented in a microcontroller. The operation and robustness of the proposed method are confirmed using simulation results.

Technological issues and industrial application of matrix converters: A review
This paper presents a review of the current state of the art in terms of practical matrix converter technologies. Present solutions to the numerous technological issues and challenges faced when implementing viable matrix converters are discussed. The reported use of the matrix converters in different applications is also presented together with a review of current industrial applications.

Conducted electromagnetic emissions in induction motor drive systems. I. Time domain analysis and identification of dominant modes
Stray components distributed in a pulsewidth modulation (PWM) drive system form parts of resonant circuits which can be excited to produce radio frequency (RF) noise driven by the pulsed switching action of the power devices. The dynamic response of such circuits is complex. It is essential to identify the dominant oscillation modes in the system so that electromagnetic interference (EMI) reduction techniques can be effectively implemented. This paper (Part I) investigates the mechanisms of conducted EMI emissions associated with a typical PWM inverter induction motor drive system. A numerical model, which includes the high-frequency effects within the machine, is established to evaluate the emissions in the time domain. The dominant high-frequency current paths are identified, and this allows the oscillation frequencies to be predicted from knowledge of the component values. The analysis is confirmed using laboratory measurements. Simplified frequency domain methods for direct calculation of the emission spectra based on the dominant high-frequency current paths are discussed in Part II.

Control of a switched reluctance generator for variable-speed wind energy applications
This paper presents a novel control system for the operation of a switched reluctance generator (SRG) driven by a variable speed wind turbine. The SRG is controlled to drive a wind energy conversion system (WECS) to the point of maximum aerodynamic efficiency using closed loop control of the power output. In the medium and low speed range, the SRG phase current is regulated using pulsewidth-modulation (PWM) control of the magnetizing voltage. For high speeds the generator is controlled using a single pulse mode. In order to interface the SRG to the grid (or ac load) a voltage-source PWM inverter is used. A 2.5-kW experimental prototype has been constructed. Wind turbine characteristics are emulated using a cage induction machine drive. The performance of the system has been tested over the whole speed range using wind profiles and power impacts. Experimental results are presented confirming the system performance.

MRAS observer for sensorless control of standalone doubly fed induction generators
This paper presents an analysis of a model reference adaptive system (MRAS) observer for the sensorless control of a standalone doubly fed induction generator (DFIG). The analysis allows the formal design of the MRAS observer of given dynamics and further allows the prediction of rotor position estimation errors under parameter mismatch. The MRAS observer analysis is experimentally implemented for the vector control of a standalone DFIG feeding a load at constant voltage and frequency. Experimental results, including speed catching of an already spinning machine, are presented and extensively discussed. Although the method is validated for a standalone generator, the proposed MRAS observer can be extended to other applications of the doubly fed induction machine.

Modulated model predictive control for a three-phase active rectifier
Model predictive control (MPC) has a number of desirable attributes which are difficult to achieve with classical converter control techniques. Unfortunately, the nature of power electronics imposes restriction to the method, as a result of the limited number of available converter states. This, combined with the spread spectrum nature of harmonics inherent with the strategy, complicates further design. This paper presents a method for removing this characteristic without compromising the desirable functionality of predictive control. The method, named modulated MPC, is applied to a two-level three-phase converter and compared with a number of similar approaches. Experimental results are used to support theoretical analysis and simulation studies.

Sensorless control of doubly-fed induction generators using a rotor-current-based MRAS observer
This paper presents a new sensorless method for the vector control of doubly-fed induction machines (DFIMs) without using speed sensors or rotor position measurements. The proposed sensorless method is based on the model reference adaptive system (MRAS) estimating the rotor position and speed from the machine rotor currents. The method is appropriate for both stand-alone and grid-connected operation of variable speed DFIMs. To design the MRAS observer with the appropriate dynamic response, a small signal model is derived. The sensitivity of the method for variation in the machine parameters is also analyzed. Speed catching on the fly and synchronization of the doubly-fed induction generator with the utility are also addressed. Experimental results obtained from a 3.5-kW prototype are presented and fully analyzed.

MRAS observers for sensorless control of doubly-fed induction generators
This paper addresses the analysis and performance of several model reference adaptive system (MRAS) observers for sensorless vector control of doubly-fed induction machines. Small signal models allow the formal analysis of the observers for a given dynamic. The performance of each MRAS observer is analyzed, considering grid-connected and stand-alone operation. The MRAS observers are implemented in a 3.5 kW experimental prototype composed of a doubly-fed induction generator and a wind turbine emulator. Experimental results validate the predictions of the small signal models and demonstrate the performance of the sensorless methods during both steady state and variable speed wind energy generation.

Control of offshore DFIG-based wind farm grid with line-commutated HVDC connection
The paper considers a control solution for integration of large offshore doubly fed induction generator based wind farms with a common collection bus, controlled by a static compensator, into the main onshore grid, using line-commutated high-voltage direct current connection. The paper's main focus is a mathematically grounded study of the power system interactions. That study produced an appropriate plant model for formal control design. A design procedure is described and the controlled system is validated using power systems computer-aided design/electromagnetic transient program simulations, which confirm the high performance of the proposed control strategy in both normal operation and fault conditions

Modulated model predictive control for a seven-level cascaded H-bridge back-to-back converter
Multilevel converters are known to have many advantages for electricity network applications. In particular, cascaded H-bridge converters are attractive because of their inherent modularity and scalability. Predictive control for power converters is advantageous as a result of its applicability to discrete system and fast response. In this paper, a novel control technique, named modulated model predictive control, is introduced with the aim to increase the performance of model predictive control. The proposed controller addresses a modulation scheme as part of the minimization process. The proposed control technique is described in detail, validated through simulation and experimental testing, and compared with dead-beat and traditional model predictive control. The results show the increased performance of the modulated model predictive control with respect to the classic finite control set model predictive control in terms of current waveform total harmonic distortion (THD). Moreover, the proposed controller allows a multi-objective control, with respect to dead-beat control that does not present this capability.

Conducted electromagnetic emissions in induction motor drive systems. II. Frequency domain models
For pt.I see ibid., vol.13, no.4, p.757-67 (1998). Predicting conducted emissions in pulsewidth modulation (PWM) inverter induction motor drive systems requires various frequency-dependent effects to be considered. A frequency domain method has advantages in such cases compared to a time domain approach. Based on the modal analysis presented in Part I, this paper develops frequency domain models to evaluate the spectra of the conducted emissions directly. The common and differential mode excitation sources are modeled in the frequency domain and related to the switching functions of the PWM inverter. Network models are established where the induction motor is represented using its frequency-dependent impedance characteristics, which can be obtained from measurements. The influences of system unbalances and of transmission-line effects due to long cables are investigated. Predicted emission spectra are compared with laboratory measurements and those derived from the time domain simulation. It is found that the agreement is good. The proposed method allows emission spectra to be predicted without recourse to specialist circuit simulators.

A complete harmonic elimination approach to DC link voltage balancing for a cascaded multilevel rectifier
This paper presents a complete method that is used to balance dc link voltages in a cascaded H-Bridge (CHB) multilevel rectifier. Recently, such converters have been the subject of extensive research due to their suitability for high-power applications. One requirement in using a multilevel active rectifier at high levels of power is to limit the switching losses by reducing the switching frequency to a minimum. Another requirement for these converters is to ensure that individual dc link capacitor voltages for each cell of the converter are always balanced to ensure controllability and to limit stress on the converter cells. This paper presents a complete method in solving both of these problems using a selective-harmonic-elimination pulsewidth-modulation scheme. The scheme utilizes a simple controller to track each cell dc link capacitor voltage magnitude and accordingly biases the power flowing into each cell to ensure that the voltages across each cell capacitor converge. This is the case even when the loads attached to the individual cells are not balanced. The theory is supported by both simulated results from Saber and by experimental results from a seven-level CHB single-phase multilevel rectifier.

A 150-kVA vector-controlled matrix converter induction motor drive
This paper describes the design, construction, and testing of a 150-kVA closed-loop vector-controlled matrix converter induction motor drive. The primary objective of this research effort is to evaluate the utility of the matrix converter in electric vehicle applications, primarily for motor control. A prototype converter has been built using 600-A 1400-V insulated gate bipolar transistors. Closed-loop vector control has been implemented and tested using a 150-hp induction motor load. This paper presents the design of this converter along with practical test results, representing the largest matrix converter built to date.

Dynamic emulation of mechanical loads using a vector-controlled induction motor-generator set
This paper addresses the problem of electronic emulation of both linear and nonlinear mechanical loads using a vector-controlled induction machine dynamometer. It is shown that a basic emulation scheme where the dynamometer torque demand is derived from the inverse dynamics of the emulated load is not generally viable, especially if the emulated load is part of a closed-loop speed control system. A new feedforward speed-tracking control scheme for the dynamometer is presented, which preserves the load dynamics and allows for emulation of a large class of nonlinear loads. An experimental rig is described using vector-controlled induction machines as the drive motor and dynamometer, and experimental results showing excellent emulation of both linear and nonlinear load dynamics are presented.

Power smoothing in wind generation systems using a sensorless vector controlled induction machine driving a flywheel
This paper presents a novel control strategy for power smoothing in generation systems in which power flow variations can occur. These variations are the norm in wind energy generation. The system is based on a sensorless vector controlled induction machine driving a flywheel. The induction machine is controlled to operate in a wide speed range by using flux weakening above rated speed. A speed observer is used to obtain the rotational speed in the whole speed range. In order to tune the speed observer and compensate for the parameter variation and uncertainties, a separate estimation of the speed is obtained from the rotor slot harmonics using an algorithm for spectral analysis. This algorithm can track fast dynamic changes in the rotational speed, with high accuracy. The control strategies have been experimentally verified on a 3.5-kW experimental setup with an induction machine and flywheel. The experimental results show the high level of performance obtained with the proposed sensorless vector control system.

Intelligent commutation of matrix converter bi-directional switch cells using novel gate drive techniques
This paper deals with the problem of snubberless commutation in matrix converters. A novel method employs current detection within intelligent gate drive circuits for each bidirectional cell which communicate with the gate drives of other cells. The problems with other methods at low currents are overcome. Experimental results verifying the method are presented.

DONE