An analysis of the requirements traceability problem
Investigates and discusses the underlying nature of the requirements traceability problem. Our work is based on empirical studies, involving over 100 practitioners, and an evaluation of current support. We introduce the distinction between pre-requirements specification (pre-RS) traceability and post-requirements specification (post-RS) traceability to demonstrate why an all-encompassing solution to the problem is unlikely, and to provide a framework through which to understand its multifaceted nature. We report how the majority of the problems attributed to poor requirements traceability are due to inadequate pre-RS traceability and show the fundamental need for improvements. We present an analysis of the main barriers confronting such improvements in practice, identify relevant areas in which advances have been (or can be) made, and make recommendations for research.<<ETX>>

Viewpoints: A framework for integrating multiple perspectives in system development
This paper outlines a framework which supports the use of multiple perspectives in system development, and provides a means for developing and applying systems design methods. The framework uses "viewpoints" to partition the system specification, the development method and the formal representations used to express the system specifications. This VOSE (viewpoint-oriented systems engineering) framework can be used to support the design of heterogeneous and composite systems. We illustrate the use of the framework with a small example drawn from composite system development and give an account of prototype automated tools based on the framework.

A framework for expressing the relationships between multiple views in requirements specification
Composite systems are generally comprised of heterogeneous components whose specifications are developed by many development participants. The requirements of such systems are invariably elicited from multiple perspectives that overlap, complement, and contradict each other. Furthermore, these requirements are generally developed and specified using multiple methods and notations, respectively. It is therefore necessary to express and check the relationships between the resultant specification fragments. We deploy multiple ViewPoints that hold partial requirements specifications, described and developed using different representation schemes and development strategies. We discuss the notion of inter-ViewPoint communication in the context of this ViewPoints framework, and propose a general model for ViewPoint interaction and integration. We elaborate on some of the requirements for expressing and enacting inter-ViewPoint relationships-the vehicles for consistency checking and inconsistency management. Finally, though we use simple fragments of the requirements specification method CORE to illustrate various components of our work, we also outline a number of larger case studies that we have used to validate our framework. Our computer-based ViewPoints support environment, The Viewer, is also briefly described. >

Inconsistency handling in multiperspective specifications
AbstructThe development of most large and complex systems necessarily involves many people+ach with their own perspectives on the system defined by their knowledge, responsibilities, and commitments. To address this we have advocated distributed development of specifications from multiple perspectives. However, this leads to problems of identifying and handling inconsistencies between such perspectives. Maintaining absolute consistency is not always possible. Often this is not even desirable since this can unnecessarily constrain the development process, and can lead to the loss of important information. Indeed since the real-world forces us to work with inconsistencies, we should formalize some of the usually informal or extra-logical ways of responding to them. This is not necessarily done by eradicating inconsistencies but rather by supplying logical rules specifying how we should act on them. To achieve this, we combine two lines of existing research: the Viewpoints framework for perspective development, interaction and organization, and a logic-based approach to inconsistency handling. This paper presents our technique for inconsistency handling in the Viewpoints framework hy using simple examples.

A sense of community: A research agenda for software ecosystems
Software vendors lack the perspective to develop software within a software ecosystem. The inability to function in a software ecosystem has already led to the demise of many software vendors, leading to loss of competition, intellectual property, and eventually jobs in the software industry. In this paper we present a research agenda on software ecosystems to study both the technical and the business aspects of software engineering in vibrant ecosystems. The results of such research enable software vendors to develop software that is adaptable to new business models and new markets, and to make strategic choices that help a software vendor to thrive in a software ecosystem.

Stakeholder identification in the requirements engineering process
Adequate, timely and effective consultation of relevant stakeholders is of paramount importance in the requirements engineering process. However, the thorny issue of making sure that all relevant stakeholders are consulted has received less attention than other areas which depend on it, such as scenario-based requirements, involving users in development, negotiating between different viewpoints and so on. The literature suggests examples of stakeholders, and categories of stakeholder, but does not provide help in identifying stakeholders for a specific system. In this paper, we discuss current work in stakeholder identification, propose an approach to identifying relevant stakeholders for a specific system, and propose future directions for the work.

Software process modelling and technology
From the Publisher: 
Prominent contributors identify key research problems that shed light on convincing treatments of several fundamental concerns which have characterized the field to date. After introducing process-centred environments, the text proposes a conceptual framework for describing and evaluating evolving software processes. Discusses 10 projects the authors are involved with such as EPOS, MERLIN, ALF, ADELE-TEMPO, SPADE and PADM. Concludes with an assessment exercise which compares and appraises these projects.

Requirements-aware systems: A research agenda for re for self-adaptive systems
Requirements are sensitive to the context in which the system-to-be must operate. Where such context is well understood and is static or evolves slowly, existing RE techniques can be made to work well. Increasingly, however, development projects are being challenged to build systems to operate in contexts that are volatile over short periods in ways that are imperfectly understood. Such systems need to be able to adapt to new environmental contexts dynamically, but the contextual uncertainty that demands this self-adaptive ability makes it hard to formulate, validate and manage their requirements. Different contexts may demand different requirements trade-offs. Unanticipated contexts may even lead to entirely new requirements. To help counter this uncertainty, we argue that requirements for self-adaptive systems should be run-time entities that can be reasoned over in order to understand the extent to which they are being satisfied and to support adaptation decisions that can take advantage of the systems’ self-adaptive machinery. We take our inspiration from the fact that explicit, abstract representations of software architectures used to be considered design-time-only entities but computational reflection showed that architectural concerns could be represented at run-time too, helping systems to dynamically reconfigure themselves according to changing context. We propose to use analogous mechanisms to achieve requirements reflection. In this paper we discuss the ideas that support requirements reflection as a means to articulate some of the outstanding research challenges.

xlinkit: A consistency checking and smart link generation service
xlinkit is a lightweight application service that provides rule-based link generation and checks the consistency of distributed Web content. It leverages standard Internet technologies, notably XML, XPath, and XLink. xlinkit can be used as part of a consistency management scheme or in applications that require smart link generation, including portal construction and management of large document repositories. In this article we show how consistency constraints can be expressed and checked. We describe a novel semantics for first-order logic that produces links instead of truth values and give an account of our content management strategy. We present the architecture of our service and the results of two substantial case studies that use xlinkit for checking course syllabus information and for validating UML models supplied by industrial partners.

A comedy of errors: the London Ambulance Service case study
This paper provides an introduction to the IWSSD-8 (8th International Workshop on Software Specification and Design) case study-the "Report of the Inquiry Into the London Ambulance Service". The paper gives an overview of the case study and provides a brief summary. It considers how the case study can be used to orient discussion at the workshop and provide a bridge between the various contributions.

StakeRare: using social networks and collaborative filtering for large-scale requirements elicitation
Requirements elicitation is the software engineering activity in which stakeholder needs are understood. It involves identifying and prioritizing requirements-a process difficult to scale to large software projects with many stakeholders. This paper proposes StakeRare, a novel method that uses social networks and collaborative filtering to identify and prioritize requirements in large software projects. StakeRare identifies stakeholders and asks them to recommend other stakeholders and stakeholder roles, builds a social network with stakeholders as nodes and their recommendations as links, and prioritizes stakeholders using a variety of social network measures to determine their project influence. It then asks the stakeholders to rate an initial list of requirements, recommends other relevant requirements to them using collaborative filtering, and prioritizes their requirements using their ratings weighted by their project influence. StakeRare was evaluated by applying it to a software project for a 30,000-user system, and a substantial empirical study of requirements elicitation was conducted. Using the data collected from surveying and interviewing 87 stakeholders, the study demonstrated that StakeRare predicts stakeholder needs accurately and arrives at a more complete and accurately prioritized list of requirements compared to the existing method used in the project, taking only a fraction of the time.

Consistency management with repair actions
Comprehensive consistency management requires a strong mechanism for repair once inconsistencies have been detected In this paper we present a repair framework for inconsistent distributed documents. The core piece of the framework is a new method for generating interactive repairs from full first order logic formulae that constrain these documents. We present a full implementation of the components in our repair framework, as well as their application to the UML and related heterogeneous documents such as EJB deployment descriptors. We describe how our approach can be used as an infrastructure for building higher-level, domain specific frameworks and provide an overview of related work in the database and software development environment community.

Business network management as a survival strategy
ISPW-6 software process example
Contribution structures [Requirements artifacts]
The invisibility of the individuals and groups that gave rise to requirements artifacts has been identified as a primary reason for the persistence of requirements traceability problems. The paper presents an approach based on modelling the dynamic contribution structures underlying requirements artifacts, which addresses this issue. It shows how these structures can be defined, using information about the agents who have contributed to artifact production, in conjunction with details of the numerous traceability relations that hold within and between artifacts themselves. It further outlines how the approach can be implemented, demonstrates the potential it provides for "personnel-based" requirements traceability, and discusses issues pertinent to its uptake.

Effective configurations of a digital contact tracing app: a report to NHSX
SARS-CoV-2

OpenABM-Covid19—An agent-based model for non-pharmaceutical interventions against COVID-19 including contact tracing
SARS-CoV-2 has spread across the world, causing high mortality and unprecedented restrictions on social and economic activity. Policymakers are assessing how best to navigate through the ongoing epidemic, with models being used to predict the spread of infection and assess the impact of public health measures. Here, we present OpenABM-Covid19: an agent-based simulation of the epidemic including detailed age-stratification and realistic social networks. By default the model is parameterised to UK demographics and calibrated to the UK epidemic, however, it can easily be re-parameterised for other countries. OpenABM-Covid19 can evaluate non-pharmaceutical interventions, including both manual and digital contact tracing. It can simulate a population of 1 million people in seconds per day allowing parameter sweeps and formal statistical model-based inference. The code is open-source and has been developed by teams both inside and outside academia, with an emphasis on formal testing, documentation, modularity and transparency. A key feature of OpenABM-Covid19 is its Python interface, which has allowed scientists and policymakers to simulate dynamic packages of interventions and help compare options to suppress the COVID-19 epidemic.

Flexible consistency checking
The problem of managing the consistency of heterogeneous, distributed software engineering documents is central to the development of large and complex systems. We show how this problem can be addressed using xlinkit, a lightweight framework for consistency checking that leverages standard Internet technologies. xlinkit provides flexibility, strong diagnostics, and support for distribution and document heterogeneity. We use xlinkit in a comprehensive case study that demonstrates how design, implementation and deployment information of an Enterprise JavaBeans system can be checked for consistency, and rechecked incrementally when changes are made.

Requirements reflection: requirements as runtime entities
Computational reflection is a well-established technique that gives a program the ability to dynamically observe and possibly modify its behaviour. To date, however, reflection is mainly applied either to the software architecture or its implementation. We know of no approach that fully supports requirements reflection- that is, making requirements available as runtime objects. Although there is a body of literature on requirements monitoring, such work typically generates runtime artefacts from requirements and so the requirements themselves are not directly accessible at runtime. In this paper, we define requirements reflection and a set of research challenges. Requirements reflection is important because software systems of the future will be self-managing and will need to adapt continuously to changing environmental conditions. We argue requirements reflection can support such self-adaptive systems by making requirements first-class runtime entities, thus endowing software systems with the ability to reason about, understand, explain and modify requirements at runtime.

Software engineering: a roadmap
This paper provides a roadmap for software engineering. It 
identifies the principal research challenges being faced by 
the discipline and brings together the threads derived from 
the key research specialisations within software 
engineering. The paper draws heavily on the roadmaps 
covering specific areas of software engineering research 
collected in this volume.

DONE