Scan registration for autonomous mining vehicles using 3D‐NDT
Scan registration is an essential subtask when building maps based on range finder data from mobile robots. The problem is to deduce how the robot has moved between consecutive scans, based on the shape of overlapping portions of the scans. This paper presents a new algorithm for registration of 3D data. The algorithm is a generalization and improvement of the normal distributions transform (NDT) for 2D data developed by Biber and Strasser, which allows for accurate registration using a memory‐efficient representation of the scan surface. A detailed quantitative and qualitative comparison of the new algorithm with the 3D version of the popular ICP (iterative closest point) algorithm is presented. Results with actual mine data, some of which were collected with a new prototype 3D laser scanner, show that the presented algorithm is faster and slightly more reliable than the standard ICP algorithm for 3D registration, while using a more memory‐efficient scan surface representation. © 2007 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Spencer: A socially aware service robot for passenger guidance and help in busy airports
SIFT, SURF & Seasons: Appearance-based Long-term Localization in Outdoor Environments
Extremely variant image pairs include distorted, deteriorated, and corrupted scenes that have experienced severe geometric, photometric, or non-geometric-non-photometric transformations with respect to their originals. Real world visual data can become extremely dusty, smoky, dark, noisy, motion-blurred, affine, JPEG compressed, occluded, shadowed, virtually invisible, etc. Therefore, matching of extremely variant scenes is an important problem and computer vision solutions must have the capability to yield robust results no matter how complex the visual input is. Similarly, there is a need to evaluate feature detectors for such complex conditions. With standard settings, feature detection, description, and matching algorithms typically fail to produce significant number of correct matches in these types of images. Though, if full potential of the algorithms is applied by using extremely low thresholds, very encouraging results are obtained. In this paper, potential of 14 feature detectors: SIFT, SURF, KAZE, AKAZE, ORB, BRISK, AGAST, FAST, MSER, MSD, GFTT, Harris Corner Detector based GFTT, Harris Laplace Detector, and CenSurE has been evaluated for matching 10 extremely variant image pairs. MSD detected more than 1 million keypoints in one of the images and SIFT exhibited a repeatability score of 99.76% for the extremely noisy image pair but failed to yield high quantity of correct matches. Rich information is presented in terms of feature quantity, total feature matches, correct matches, and repeatability scores. Moreover, computational costs of 25 diverse feature detectors are reported towards the end, which can be used as a benchmark for comparison studies.

Fast and Accurate Scan Registration through Minimization of the Distance between Compact 3D NDT Representations
Registration of range sensor measurements is an important task in mobile robotics and has received a lot of attention. Several iterative optimization schemes have been proposed in order to align three-dimensional (3D) point scans. With the more widespread use of high-frame-rate 3D sensors and increasingly more challenging application scenarios for mobile robots, there is a need for fast and accurate registration methods that current state-of-the-art algorithms cannot always meet. This work proposes a novel algorithm that achieves accurate point cloud registration an order of a magnitude faster than the current state of the art. The speedup is achieved through the use of a compact spatial representation: the Three-Dimensional Normal Distributions Transform (3D-NDT). In addition, a fast, global-descriptor based on the 3D-NDT is defined and used to achieve reliable initial poses for the iterative algorithm. Finally, a closed-form expression for the covariance of the proposed method is also derived. The proposed algorithms are evaluated on two standard point cloud data sets, resulting in stable performance on a par with or better than the state of the art. The implementation is available as an open-source package for the Robot Operating System (ROS).

Evaluation of 3D Registration Reliability and Speed - A Comparison of ICP and NDT
To advance robotic science it is important to perform experiments that can be replicated by other researchers to compare different methods. However, these comparisons tend to be biased, since re-implementations of reference methods often lack thoroughness and do not include the hands-on experience obtained during the original development process. This paper presents a thorough comparison of 3D scan registration algorithms based on a 3D mapping field experiment, carried out by two research groups that are leading in the field of 3D robotic mapping. The iterative closest points algorithm (ICP) is compared to the normal distributions transform (NDT). We also present an improved version of NDT with a substantially larger valley of convergence than previously published versions.

Gas source localization with a micro-drone using bio-inspired and particle filter-based algorithms
Gas source localization (GSL) with mobile robots is a challenging task due to the unpredictable nature of gas dispersion, the limitations of the currents sensing technologies, and the mobility constraints of ground-based robots. This work proposes an integral solution for the GSL task, including source declaration. We present a novel pseudo-gradient-based plume tracking algorithm and a particle filter-based source declaration approach, and apply it on a gas-sensitive micro-drone. We compare the performance of the proposed system in simulations and real-world experiments against two commonly used tracking algorithms adapted for aerial exploration missions.

SIFT, SURF and Seasons: Long-term Outdoor Localization Using Local Features.
Local feature matching has become a commonly used method to compare images. For mobile robots, a reliable method for comparing images can constitute a key component for localization and loop closing tasks. In this paper, we address the issues of outdoor appearance-based topological localization for a mobile robot over time. Our data sets, each consisting of a large number of panoramic images, have been acquired over a period of nine months with large seasonal changes (snowcovered ground, bare trees, autumn leaves, dense foliage, etc.). Two different types of image feature algorithms, SIFT and the more recent SURF, have been used to compare the images. We show that two variants of SURF, called U-SURF and SURF-128, outperform the other algorithms in terms of accuracy and speed.

Airborne chemical sensing with mobile robots
Airborne chemical sensing with mobile robots has been an active research area since the beginning of the 1990s. This article presents a review of research work in this field, including gas distribution mapping, trail guidance, and the different subtasks of gas source localisation. Due to the difficulty of modelling gas distribution in a real world environment with currently available simulation techniques, we focus largely on experimental work and do not consider publications that are purely based on simulations.

Building gas concentration gridmaps with a mobile robot
Autonomous gas-sensitive microdrone: Wind vector estimation and gas distribution mapping
This article presents the development and validation of an autonomous, gas sensitive microdrone that is capable of estimating the wind vector in real time using only the onboard control unit of the microdrone and performing gas distribution mapping (DM). Two different sampling approaches are suggested to address this problem. On the one hand, a predefined trajectory is used to explore the target area with the microdrone in a real-world gas DM experiment. As an alternative sampling approach, we introduce an adaptive strategy that suggests next sampling points based on an artificial potential field (APF). Initial results in real-world experiments demonstrate the capability of the proposed adaptive sampling strategy for gas DM and its use for gas source localization.

That's on my mind! robot to human intention communication through on-board projection on shared floor space
The upcoming new generation of autonomous vehicles for transporting materials in industrial environments will be more versatile, flexible and efficient than traditional AGVs, which simply follow pre-defined paths. However, freely navigating vehicles can appear unpredictable to human workers and thus cause stress and render joint use of the available space inefficient. Here we address this issue and propose on-board intention projection on the shared floor space for communication from robot to human. We present a research prototype of a robotic fork-lift equipped with a LED projector to visualize internal state information and intents. We describe the projector system and discuss calibration issues. The robot's ability to communicate its intentions is evaluated in realistic situations where test subjects meet the robotic forklift. The results show that already adding simple information, such as the trajectory and the space to be occupied by the robot in the near future, is able to effectively improve human response to the robot.

A Statistical Approach to Gas Distribution Modelling with Mobile Robots - The Kernel DM+V Algorithm
Gas distribution modelling constitutes an ideal application area for mobile robots, which - as intelligent mobile gas sensors - offer several advantages compared to stationary sensor networks. In this paper we propose the Kernel DM+V algorithm to learn a statistical 2-d gas distribution model from a sequence of localized gas sensor measurements. The algorithm does not make strong assumptions about the sensing locations and can thus be applied on a mobile robot that is not primarily used for gas distribution monitoring, and also in the case of stationary measurements. Kernel DM+V treats distribution modelling as a density estimation problem. In contrast to most previous approaches, it models the variance in addition to the distribution mean. Estimating the predictive variance entails a significant improvement for gas distribution modelling since it allows to evaluate the model quality in terms of the data likelihood. This offers a solution to the problem of ground truth evaluation, which has always been a critical issue for gas distribution modelling. Estimating the predictive variance also provides the means to learn meta parameters and to suggest new measurement locations based on the current model. We derive the Kernel DM+V algorithm and present a method for learning the hyper-parameters. Based on real world data collected with a mobile robot we demonstrate the consistency of the obtained maps and present a quantitative comparison, in terms of the data likelihood of unseen samples, with an alternative approach that estimates the predictive variance.

Mobile robots for localizing gas emission sources on landfill sites: is bio-inspiration the way to go?
Roboticists often take inspiration from animals for designing sensors, actuators, or algorithms that control the behavior of robots. Bio-inspiration is motivated with the uncanny ability of animals to solve complex tasks like recognizing and manipulating objects, walking on uneven terrains, or navigating to the source of an odor plume. In particular the task of tracking an odor plume up to its source has nearly exclusively been addressed using biologically inspired algorithms and robots have been developed, for example, to mimic the behavior of moths, dung beetles, or lobsters. In this paper we argue that biomimetic approaches to gas source localization are of limited use, primarily because animals differ fundamentally in their sensing and actuation capabilities from state-of-the-art gas-sensitive mobile robots. To support our claim, we compare actuation and chemical sensing available to mobile robots to the corresponding capabilities of moths. We further characterize airflow and chemosensor measurements obtained with three different robot platforms (two wheeled robots and one flying micro-drone) in four prototypical environments and show that the assumption of a constant and unidirectional airflow, which is the basis of many gas source localization approaches, is usually far from being valid. This analysis should help to identify how underlying principles, which govern the gas source tracking behavior of animals, can be usefully “translated” into gas source localization approaches that fully take into account the capabilities of mobile robots. We also describe the requirements for a reference application, monitoring of gas emissions at landfill sites with mobile robots, and discuss an engineered gas source localization approach based on statistics as an alternative to biologically inspired algorithms.

Appearance-Based Loop Detection from 3D Laser Data Using the Normal Distributions Transform
We propose a new approach to appearance-based loop detectio n for mobile robots, using 3D laser scans. Loop detection is an important problem in the SLAM domain, and, because it can be seen as the problem of recognizing prev iously visited places, it is an example of the data association problem. Without a fla t floor assumption, 2D laser-based approaches are bound to fail in many cases. Two o f the problems with 3D approaches that we address in this paper are how to handle t he greatly increased amount of data and how to efficiently obtain invariance to 3D r otations. We present a compact representation of 3D point clouds that is still disc riminative enough to detect loop closures without false positives (i.e., detecting loo p closure where there is none). A low false positive rate is very important because wrong dat a association could have disastrous consequences in a SLAM algorithm. Our approach u ses only the appearance of 3D point clouds to detect loops and requires no pose in formation. We exploit the NDT surface representation to create feature histogram s based on surface orientation and smoothness. The surface shape histograms compress the input data by two to three orders of magnitude. Because of the high compression r ate, the histograms can be matched efficiently to compare the appearance of two scans . Rotation invariance is achieved by aligning scans with respect to dominant surfa ce orientations. We also propose to use expectation maximization to fit a Gamma mixtur e model to the output similarity measures in order to automatically determine th e t reshold that separates scans at loop closures from non-overlapping ones. We discus s the problem of determining ground truth in the context of loop detection and the d ifficulties in comparing the results of the few available methods based on range infor mation. Furthermore, we present quantitative performance evaluations using three real-world data sets, one of which is highly self-similar, showing that the proposed met hod achieves high recall rates (percentage of correctly identified loop closures) at low false positive rates in environments with different characteristics.

Domain-specific interpretation of eye tracking data: towards a refined use of the eye-mind hypothesis for the field of geometry
3D normal distributions transform occupancy maps: An efficient representation for mapping in dynamic environments
In order to enable long-term operation of autonomous vehicles in industrial environments numerous challenges need to be addressed. A basic requirement for many applications is the creation and maintenance of consistent 3D world models. This article proposes a novel 3D spatial representation for online real-world mapping, building upon two known representations: normal distributions transform (NDT) maps and occupancy grid maps. The proposed normal distributions transform occupancy map (NDT-OM) combines the advantages of both representations; compactness of NDT maps and robustness of occupancy maps. One key contribution in this article is that we formulate an exact recursive updates for NDT-OMs. We show that the recursive update equations provide natural support for multi-resolution maps. Next, we describe a modification of the recursive update equations that allows adaptation in dynamic environments. As a second key contribution we introduce NDT-OMs and formulate the occupancy update equations that allow to build consistent maps in dynamic environments. The update of the occupancy values are based on an efficient probabilistic sensor model that is specially formulated for NDT-OMs. In several experiments with a total of 17 hours of data from a milk factory we demonstrate that NDT-OMs enable real-time performance in large-scale, long-term industrial setups.

Automatic Appearance-based Loop Detection from Three-dimensional Laser Data Using the Normal Distributions Transform
We propose a new approach to appearance‐based loop detection for mobile robots, using three‐dimensional (3D) laser scans. Loop detection is an important problem in the simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) domain, and, because it can be seen as the problem of recognizing previously visited places, it is an example of the data association problem. Without a flat‐floor assumption, two‐dimensional laser‐based approaches are bound to fail in many cases. Two of the problems with 3D approaches that we address in this paper are how to handle the greatly increased amount of data and how to efficiently obtain invariance to 3D rotations. We present a compact representation of 3D point clouds that is still discriminative enough to detect loop closures without false positives (i.e., detecting loop closure where there is none). A low false‐positive rate is very important because wrong data association could have disastrous consequences in a SLAM algorithm. Our approach uses only the appearance of 3D point clouds to detect loops and requires no pose information. We exploit the normal distributions transform surface representation to create feature histograms based on surface orientation and smoothness. The surface shape histograms compress the input data by two to three orders of magnitude. Because of the high compression rate, the histograms can be matched efficiently to compare the appearance of two scans. Rotation invariance is achieved by aligning scans with respect to dominant surface orientations. We also propose to use expectation maximization to fit a gamma mixture model to the output similarity measures in order to automatically determine the threshold that separates scans at loop closures from nonoverlapping ones. We discuss the problem of determining ground truth in the context of loop detection and the difficulties in comparing the results of the few available methods based on range information. Furthermore, we present quantitative performance evaluations using three real‐world data sets, one of which is highly self‐similar, showing that the proposed method achieves high recall rates (percentage of correctly identified loop closures) at low false‐positive rates in environments with different characteristics. © 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Smelling nano aerial vehicle for gas source localization and mapping
This paper describes the development and validation of the currently smallest aerial platform with olfaction capabilities. The developed Smelling Nano Aerial Vehicle (SNAV) is based on a lightweight commercial nano-quadcopter (27 g) equipped with a custom gas sensing board that can host up to two in situ metal oxide semiconductor (MOX) gas sensors. Due to its small form-factor, the SNAV is not a hazard for humans, enabling its use in public areas or inside buildings. It can autonomously carry out gas sensing missions of hazardous environments inaccessible to terrestrial robots and bigger drones, for example searching for victims and hazardous gas leaks inside pockets that form within the wreckage of collapsed buildings in the aftermath of an earthquake or explosion. The first contribution of this work is assessing the impact of the nano-propellers on the MOX sensor signals at different distances to a gas source. A second contribution is adapting the ‘bout’ detection algorithm, proposed by Schmuker et al. (2016) to extract specific features from the derivative of the MOX sensor response, for real-time operation. The third and main contribution is the experimental validation of the SNAV for gas source localization (GSL) and mapping in a large indoor environment (160 m2) with a gas source placed in challenging positions for the drone, for example hidden in the ceiling of the room or inside a power outlet box. Two GSL strategies are compared, one based on the instantaneous gas sensor response and the other one based on the bout frequency. From the measurements collected (in motion) along a predefined sweeping path we built (in less than 3 min) a 3D map of the gas distribution and identified the most likely source location. Using the bout frequency yielded on average a higher localization accuracy than using the instantaneous gas sensor response (1.38 m versus 2.05 m error), however accurate tuning of an additional parameter (the noise threshold) is required in the former case. The main conclusion of this paper is that a nano-drone has the potential to perform gas sensing tasks in complex environments.

Normal distributions transform Monte-Carlo localization (NDT-MCL)
Industrial applications often impose hard requirements on the precision of autonomous vehicle systems. As a consequence industrial Automatically Guided Vehicle (AGV) systems still use high-cost infrastructure based positioning solutions. In this paper we propose a map based localization method that fulfills the requirements on precision and repeatability, typical for industrial application scenarios. The proposed method - Normal Distributions Transform Monte Carlo Localization (NDT-MCL) is based on a well established probabilistic framework. In a novel contribution, we formulate the MCL localization approach using the Normal Distributions Transform (NDT) as an underlying representation for both map and sensor data. By relaxing the hard discretization assumption imposed by grid-map models and utilizing the piece-wise continuous NDT representation the proposed algorithm achieves substantially improved accuracy and repeatability. The proposed NDT-MCL algorithm is evaluated using offline data sets from both a laboratory and a real-world industrial environments. Additionally, we report a comparison of the proposed algorithm to grid-based MCL and to a commercial localization system when used in a closed-loop with the control system of an AGV platform. In all tests the proposed algorithm is demonstrated to provide performance superior to that of standard grid-based MCL and comparable to the performance of the commercial infrastructure based positioning system.

Normal distributions transform occupancy maps: Application to large-scale online 3D mapping
Autonomous vehicles operating in real-world industrial environments have to overcome numerous challenges, chief among which is the creation and maintenance of consistent 3D world models. This paper proposes to address the challenges of online real-world mapping by building upon previous work on compact spatial representation and formulating a novel 3D mapping approach - the Normal Distributions Transform Occupancy Map (NDT-OM). The presented algorithm enables accurate real-time 3D mapping in large-scale dynamic environments employing a recursive update strategy. In addition, the proposed approach can seamlessly provide maps at multiple resolutions allowing for fast utilization in high-level functions such as localization or path planning. Compared to previous approaches that use the NDT representation, the proposed NDT-OM formulates an exact and efficient recursive update formulation and models the full occupancy of the map.

DONE