Truthful incentives in crowdsourcing tasks using regret minimization mechanisms
What price should be offered to a worker for a task in an online labor market? How can one enable workers to express the amount they desire to receive for the task completion? Designing optimal pricing policies and determining the right monetary incentives is central to maximizing requester's utility and workers' profits. Yet, current crowdsourcing platforms only offer a limited capability to the requester in designing the pricing policies and often rules of thumb are used to price tasks. This limitation could result in inefficient use of the requester's budget or workers becoming disinterested in the task. In this paper, we address these questions and present mechanisms using the approach of regret minimization in online learning. We exploit a link between procurement auctions and multi-armed bandits to design mechanisms that are budget feasible, achieve near-optimal utility for the requester, are incentive compatible (truthful) for workers and make minimal assumptions about the distribution of workers' true costs. Our main contribution is a novel, no-regret posted price mechanism, BP-UCB, for budgeted procurement in stochastic online settings. We prove strong theoretical guarantees about our mechanism, and extensively evaluate it in simulations as well as on real data from the Mechanical Turk platform. Compared to the state of the art, our approach leads to a 180% increase in utility.

A Unified Approach to Quantifying Algorithmic Unfairness: Measuring Individual & Group Unfairness via Inequality Indices
Discrimination via algorithmic decision making has received considerable attention. Prior work largely focuses on defining conditions for fairness, but does not define satisfactory measures of algorithmic unfairness. In this paper, we focus on the following question: Given two unfair algorithms, how should we determine which of the two is more unfair? Our core idea is to use existing inequality indices from economics to measure how unequally the outcomes of an algorithm benefit different individuals or groups in a population. Our work offers a justified and general framework to compare and contrast the (un)fairness of algorithmic predictors. This unifying approach enables us to quantify unfairness both at the individual and the group level. Further, our work reveals overlooked tradeoffs between different fairness notions: using our proposed measures, the overall individual-level unfairness of an algorithm can be decomposed into a between-group and a within-group component. Earlier methods are typically designed to tackle only between-group un- fairness, which may be justified for legal or other reasons. However, we demonstrate that minimizing exclusively the between-group component may, in fact, increase the within-group, and hence the overall unfairness. We characterize and illustrate the tradeoffs between our measures of (un)fairness and the prediction accuracy.

Fake News Detection in Social Networks via Crowd Signals
Our work considers leveraging crowd signals for detecting fake news and is motivated by tools recently introduced by Facebook that enable users to flag fake news. By aggregating users' flags, our goal is to select a small subset of news every day, send them to an expert (e.g., via a third-party fact-checking organization), and stop the spread of news identified as fake by an expert. The main objective of our work is to minimize the spread of misinformation by stopping the propagation of fake news in the network. It is especially challenging to achieve this objective as it requires detecting fake news with high-confidence as quickly as possible. We show that in order to leverage users' flags efficiently, it is crucial to learn about users' flagging accuracy. We develop a novel algorithm, DETECTIVE, that performs Bayesian inference for detecting fake news and jointly learns about users' flagging accuracy over time. Our algorithm employs posterior sampling to actively trade off exploitation (selecting news that maximize the objective value at a given epoch) and exploration (selecting news that maximize the value of information towards learning about users' flagging accuracy). We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach via extensive experiments and show the power of leveraging community signals for fake news detection.

Incentivizing Users for Balancing Bike Sharing Systems.

 
 Bike sharing systems have been recently adopted by a growing number of cities as a new means of transportation offering citizens a flexible, fast and green alternative for mobility. Users can pick up or drop off the bicycles at a station of their choice without prior notice or time planning. This increased flexibility comes with the challenge of unpredictable and fluctuating demand as well as irregular flow patterns of the bikes. As a result, these systems can incur imbalance problems such as the unavailability of bikes or parking docks at stations. In this light, operators deploy fleets of vehicles which re-distribute the bikes in order to guarantee a desirable service level. Can we engage the users themselves to solve the imbalance problem in bike sharing systems? In this paper, we address this question and present a crowdsourcing mechanism that incentivizes the users in the bike repositioning process by providing them with alternate choices to pick or return bikes in exchange for monetary incentives. We design the complete architecture of the incentives system which employs optimal pricing policies using the approach of regret minimization in online learning. We investigate the incentive compatibility of our mechanism and extensively evaluate it through simulations based on data collected via a survey study. Finally, we deployed the proposed system through a smartphone app among users of a large scale bike sharing system operated by a public transport company, and we provide results from this experimental deployment. To our knowledge, this is the first dynamic incentives system for bikes re-distribution ever deployed in a real-world bike sharing system.
 


An Overview of Machine Teaching
In this paper we try to organize machine teaching as a coherent set of ideas. Each idea is presented as varying along a dimension. The collection of dimensions then form the problem space of machine teaching, such that existing teaching problems can be characterized in this space. We hope this organization allows us to gain deeper understanding of individual teaching problems, discover connections among them, and identify gaps in the field.

Near-Optimally Teaching the Crowd to Classify.
How should we present training examples to learners to teach them classification rules? This is a natural problem when training workers for crowdsourcing labeling tasks, and is also motivated by challenges in data-driven online education. We propose a natural stochastic model of the learners, modeling them as randomly switching among hypotheses based on observed feedback. We then develop STRICT, an efficient algorithm for selecting examples to teach to workers. Our solution greedily maximizes a submodular surrogate objective function in order to select examples to showto the learners. We prove that our strategy is competitive with the optimal teaching policy. Moreover, for the special case of linear separators, we prove that an exponential reduction in error probability can be achieved. Our experiments on simulated workers as well as three real image annotation tasks on Amazon Mechanical Turk show the effectiveness of our teaching algorithm.

Policy Teaching via Environment Poisoning: Training-time Adversarial Attacks against Reinforcement Learning
We study a security threat to reinforcement learning where an attacker poisons the learning environment to force the agent into executing a target policy chosen by the attacker. As a victim, we consider RL agents whose objective is to find a policy that maximizes average reward in undiscounted infinite-horizon problem settings. The attacker can manipulate the rewards or the transition dynamics in the learning environment at training-time and is interested in doing so in a stealthy manner. We propose an optimization framework for finding an \emph{optimal stealthy attack} for different measures of attack cost. We provide sufficient technical conditions under which the attack is feasible and provide lower/upper bounds on the attack cost. We instantiate our attacks in two settings: (i) an \emph{offline} setting where the agent is doing planning in the poisoned environment, and (ii) an \emph{online} setting where the agent is learning a policy using a regret-minimization framework with poisoned feedback. Our results show that the attacker can easily succeed in teaching any target policy to the victim under mild conditions and highlight a significant security threat to reinforcement learning agents in practice.

Adaptive Reward-Poisoning Attacks against Reinforcement Learning
In reward-poisoning attacks against reinforcement learning (RL), an attacker can perturb the environment reward $r_t$ into $r_t+\delta_t$ at each step, with the goal of forcing the RL agent to learn a nefarious policy. We categorize such attacks by the infinity-norm constraint on $\delta_t$: We provide a lower threshold below which reward-poisoning attack is infeasible and RL is certified to be safe; we provide a corresponding upper threshold above which the attack is feasible. Feasible attacks can be further categorized as non-adaptive where $\delta_t$ depends only on $(s_t,a_t, s_{t+1})$, or adaptive where $\delta_t$ depends further on the RL agent's learning process at time $t$. Non-adaptive attacks have been the focus of prior works. However, we show that under mild conditions, adaptive attacks can achieve the nefarious policy in steps polynomial in state-space size $|S|$, whereas non-adaptive attacks require exponential steps. We provide a constructive proof that a Fast Adaptive Attack strategy achieves the polynomial rate. Finally, we show that empirically an attacker can find effective reward-poisoning attacks using state-of-the-art deep RL techniques.

Incentives for privacy tradeoff in community sensing

 
 Community sensing, fusing information from populations of privately-held sensors, presents a great opportunity to create efficient and cost-effective sensing applications. Yet, reasonable privacy concerns often limit the access to such data streams. How should systems valuate and negotiate access to private information, for example in return for monetary incentives? How should they optimally choose the participants from a large population of strategic users with privacy concerns, and compensate them for information shared? In this paper, we address these questions and present a novel mechanism, SeqTGreedy, for budgeted recruitment of participants in community sensing. We first show that privacy tradeoffs in community sensing can be cast as an adaptive submodular optimization problem. We then design a budget feasible, incentive compatible (truthful) mechanism for adaptive submodular maximization, which achieves near-optimal utility for a large class of sensing applications. This mechanism is general, and of independent interest. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in a case study of air quality monitoring, using data collected from the Mechanical Turk platform. Compared to the state of the art, our approach achieves up to 30% reduction in cost in order to achieve a desired level of utility.
 


Mechanism design for crowdsourcing markets with heterogeneous tasks

 
 Designing optimal pricing policies and mechanisms for allocating tasks to workers is central to online crowdsourcing markets. In this paper, we consider the following realistic setting of online crowdsourcing markets -- we are given a set of heterogeneous tasks requiring certain skills; each worker has certain expertise and interests which define the set of tasks she is interested in and willing to do. Given this bipartite graph between workers and tasks, we design our mechanism \truthuniform which does the allocation of tasks to workers, while ensuring budget feasibility, incentive-compatibility and achieves near-optimal utility. We further extend our results by exploiting a link with online Adwords allocation problem and present a randomized mechanism \truthfractional with improved approximation guarantees. Apart from strong theoretical guarantees, we carry out extensive experimentation using simulations as well as on a realistic case study of Wikipedia translation project with Mechanical Turk workers. Our results demonstrate the practical applicability of our mechanisms for realistic crowdsourcing markets on the web.
 


Interactive Teaching Algorithms for Inverse Reinforcement Learning
We study the problem of inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) with the added twist that the learner is assisted by a helpful teacher. More formally, we tackle the following algorithmic question: How could a teacher provide an informative sequence of demonstrations to an IRL learner to speed up the learning process? We present an interactive teaching framework where a teacher adaptively chooses the next demonstration based on learner's current policy. In particular, we design teaching algorithms for two concrete settings: an omniscient setting where a teacher has full knowledge about the learner's dynamics and a blackbox setting where the teacher has minimal knowledge. Then, we study a sequential variant of the popular MCE-IRL learner and prove convergence guarantees of our teaching algorithm in the omniscient setting. Extensive experiments with a car driving simulator environment show that the learning progress can be speeded up drastically as compared to an uninformative teacher.

Quantifying web-search privacy
Web search queries reveal extensive information about users' personal lives to the search engines and Internet eavesdroppers. Obfuscating search queries through adding dummy queries is a practical and user-centric protection mechanism to hide users' search intentions and interests. Despite few such obfuscation methods and tools, there is no generic quantitative methodology for evaluating users' web-search privacy. In this paper, we provide such a methodology. We formalize adversary's background knowledge and attacks, the users' privacy objectives, and the algorithms to evaluate effectiveness of query obfuscation mechanisms. We build upon machine-learning algorithms to learn the linkability between user queries. This encompasses the adversary's knowledge about the obfuscation mechanism and the users' web-search behavior. Then, we quantify privacy of users with respect to linkage attacks. Our generic attack can run against users for which the adversary does not have any background knowledge, as well as for the cases where some prior queries from the target users are already observed. We quantify privacy at the query level (the link between user's queries) and the semantic level (user's topics of interest). We design a generic tool that can be used for evaluating generic obfuscation mechanisms, and users with different web search behavior. To illustrate our approach in practice, we analyze and compare privacy of users for two example obfuscation mechanisms on a set of real web-search logs.

Noisy Submodular Maximization via Adaptive Sampling with Applications to Crowdsourced Image Collection Summarization.

 
 We address the problem of maximizing an unknown submodular function that can only be accessed via noisy evaluations. Our work is motivated by the task of summarizing content, e.g., image collections, by leveraging users' feedback in form of clicks or ratings. For summarization tasks with the goal of maximizing coverage and diversity, submodular set functions are a natural choice. When the underlying submodular function is unknown, users' feedback can provide noisy evaluations of the function that we seek to maximize. We provide a generic algorithm — ExpGreedy — for maximizing an unknown submodular function under cardinality constraints. This algorithm makes use of a novel exploration module— TopX — that proposes good elements based on adaptively sampling noisy function evaluations. TopX is able to accommodate different kinds of observation models such as value queries and pairwise comparisons. We provide PAC-style guarantees on the quality and sampling cost of the solution obtained by ExpGreedy. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in an interactive, crowdsourced image collection summarization application.
 


Studying trailfinding algorithms for enhanced web search
Search engines return ranked lists of Web pages in response to queries. These pages are starting points for post-query navigation, but may be insufficient for search tasks involving multiple steps. Search trails mined from toolbar logs start with a query and contain pages visited by one user during post-query navigation. Implicit endorsements from many trails can enhance result ranking. Rather than using trails solely to improve ranking, it may also be worth providing trail information directly to users. In this paper, we quantify the benefit that users currently obtain from trail-following and compare different methods for finding the best trail for a given query and each top-ranked result. We compare the relevance, topic coverage, topic diversity, and utility of trails selected using different methods, and break out findings by factors such as query type and origin relevance. Our findings demonstrate value in trails, highlight interesting differences in the performance of trailfinding algorithms, and show we can find best-trails for a query that outperform the trails most users follow. Findings have implications for enhancing Web information seeking using trails.

