A promoter-level mammalian expression atlas
Transcribed enhancers lead waves of coordinated transcription in transitioning mammalian cells
Uncaging promoter and enhancer dynamics In order to understand cellular differentiation, it is important to understand the timing of the regulation of gene expression. Arner et al. used cap analysis of gene expression (CAGE) to analyze gene enhancer and promoter activities in a number of human and mouse cell types. The RNA of enhancers was transcribed first, followed by that of transcription factors, and finally by genes that are not transcription factors. Science, this issue p. 1010 The RNAs of enhancers are expressed before the genes they regulate during human and mouse cell differentiation. Although it is generally accepted that cellular differentiation requires changes to transcriptional networks, dynamic regulation of promoters and enhancers at specific sets of genes has not been previously studied en masse. Exploiting the fact that active promoters and enhancers are transcribed, we simultaneously measured their activity in 19 human and 14 mouse time courses covering a wide range of cell types and biological stimuli. Enhancer RNAs, then messenger RNAs encoding transcription factors, dominated the earliest responses. Binding sites for key lineage transcription factors were simultaneously overrepresented in enhancers and promoters active in each cellular system. Our data support a highly generalizable model in which enhancer transcription is the earliest event in successive waves of transcriptional change during cellular differentiation or activation.

The macrophage-inducible C-type lectin, mincle, is an essential component of the innate immune response to Candida albicans
The recognition of carbohydrate moieties by cells of the innate immune system is emerging as an essential element in antifungal immunity, but despite the number and diversity of lectins expressed by innate immune cells, few carbohydrate receptors have been characterized. Mincle, a C-type lectin, is expressed predominantly on macrophages, and is here shown to play a role in macrophage responses to the yeast Candida albicans. After exposure to the yeast in vitro, Mincle localized to the phagocytic cup, but it was not essential for phagocytosis. In the absence of Mincle, production of TNF-α by macrophages was reduced, both in vivo and in vitro. In addition, mice lacking Mincle showed a significantly increased susceptibility to systemic candidiasis. Thus, Mincle plays a novel and nonredundant role in the induction of inflammatory signaling in response to C. albicans infection.

The transcriptional network that controls growth arrest and differentiation in a human myeloid leukemia cell line
FANTOM5 CAGE profiles of human and mouse samples
Disease-specific, neurosphere-derived cells as models for brain disorders
SUMMARY There is a pressing need for patient-derived cell models of brain diseases that are relevant and robust enough to produce the large quantities of cells required for molecular and functional analyses. We describe here a new cell model based on patient-derived cells from the human olfactory mucosa, the organ of smell, which regenerates throughout life from neural stem cells. Olfactory mucosa biopsies were obtained from healthy controls and patients with either schizophrenia, a neurodevelopmental psychiatric disorder, or Parkinson’s disease, a neurodegenerative disease. Biopsies were dissociated and grown as neurospheres in defined medium. Neurosphere-derived cell lines were grown in serum-containing medium as adherent monolayers and stored frozen. By comparing 42 patient and control cell lines we demonstrated significant disease-specific alterations in gene expression, protein expression and cell function, including dysregulated neurodevelopmental pathways in schizophrenia and dysregulated mitochondrial function, oxidative stress and xenobiotic metabolism in Parkinson’s disease. The study has identified new candidate genes and cell pathways for future investigation. Fibroblasts from schizophrenia patients did not show these differences. Olfactory neurosphere-derived cells have many advantages over embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells as models for brain diseases. They do not require genetic reprogramming and they can be obtained from adults with complex genetic diseases. They will be useful for understanding disease aetiology, for diagnostics and for drug discovery.

Colony-stimulating factor-1 promotes kidney growth and repair via alteration of macrophage responses
Human and mouse macrophage-inducible C-type lectin (Mincle) bind Candida albicans
Candida albicans is a causative agent in mycoses of the skin, oral cavity, and gastrointestinal tract. Identification of receptors, and their respective ligands, that are engaged by immune cells when in contact with C. albicans is crucial for understanding inflammatory responses leading to invasive candidiasis. Mincle is a recently identified macrophage-expressed receptor that is important for host responses to C. albicans. The carbohydrate-recognition domain of human and mouse Mincle were expressed, purified under denaturing conditions, and successfully refolded. In addition to oligomers, there are isolatable monomeric and dimeric forms of the protein that occur under two different buffer solutions. The human and mouse homologues bound yeast extract, and the isolated dimeric and monomeric species also demonstrated the recognition of whole C. albicans yeast cells. The data are indicative of several functional states mediating the interaction of Mincle and yeast at the surface of the macrophage.

Yeast genome-wide expression analysis identifies a strong ergosterol and oxidative stress response during the initial stages of an industrial lager fermentation
ABSTRACT Genome-wide expression analysis of an industrial strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae during the initial stages of an industrial lager fermentation identified a strong response from genes involved in the biosynthesis of ergosterol and oxidative stress protection. The induction of the ERG genes was confirmed by Northern analysis and was found to be complemented by a rapid accumulation of ergosterol over the initial 6-h fermentation period. From a test of the metabolic activity of deletion mutants in the ergosterol biosynthesis pathway, it was found that ergosterol is an important factor in restoring the fermentative capacity of the cell after storage. Additionally, similar ERG10 and TRR1 gene expression patterns over the initial 24-h fermentation period highlighted a possible interaction between ergosterol biosynthesis and the oxidative stress response. Further analysis showed that erg mutants producing altered sterols were highly sensitive to oxidative stress-generating compounds. Here we show that genome-wide expression analysis can be used in the commercial environment and was successful in identifying environmental conditions that are important in industrial yeast fermentation.

Resistance to hydrogen peroxide in Helicobacter pylori: role of catalase (KatA) and Fur, and functional analysis of a novel gene product designated ‘KatA …
Helicobacter pylori infection elicits an aggressive inflammatory response that the bacterium is able to resist by virtue of its well-adapted antioxidant defence mechanisms. Catalase (KatA) appears to be a key enzyme in this resistance. Upstream of katA, a low-affinity ferric uptake regulator (Fur)-box has been identified. Downstream of katA, an ORF (HP0874) with no known function has also been identified. Non-polar isogenic mutants of katA, fur and HP0874 were constructed by allelic exchange. The impact of these mutations on the catalase activities and bacterial viability following exposure to hydrogen peroxide was studied. Concurrently, the effect of variation in the iron content of the media used to grow the cells was determined. The data showed that catalase-deficient isolates of H. pylori were hypersensitive to hydrogen peroxide, whereas wild-type cells could resist approximately approximately 100 mM hydrogen peroxide. Fur-deficient mutants and cells grown on low-iron-containing medium showed a distinct reduction in catalase activity and increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide. The data suggest a direct or indirect effect of Fur and iron on the activity of catalase. HP0874-deficient mutants showed no reduction in catalase activity but showed an increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide. That is, the protein encoded by HP0874 appears to have a role in resistance to hydrogen peroxide not directly related to catalase activity. This is the first report of a functional relationship of the product of this ORF. There is evidence of protein-protein interaction between KatA and the product encoded by HP0874, and the name 'KatA-associated protein' (KapA) is proposed.

Mincle polarizes human monocyte and neutrophil responses to Candida albicans
Differential regulation of glutaredoxin gene expression in response to stress conditions in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae
Comparative performance of the BGI and Illumina sequencing technology for single-cell RNA-sequencing
The libraries generated by high-throughput single cell RNA-sequencing platforms such as the Chromium from 10x Genomics require considerable amounts of sequencing, typically due to the large number of cells. The ability to use this data to address biological questions is directly impacted by the quality of the sequence data. Here we have compared the performance of the Illumina NextSeq 500 and NovaSeq 6000 against the BGI MGISEQ-2000 platform using identical Single Cell 3’ libraries consisting of over 70,000 cells. Our results demonstrate a highly comparable performance between the NovaSeq 6000 and MGISEQ-2000 in sequencing quality, and cell, UMI, and gene detection. However, compared with the NextSeq 500, the MGISEQ-2000 platform performs consistently better, identifying more cells, genes, and UMIs at equalised read depth. We were able to call an additional 1,065,659 SNPs from sequence data generated by the BGI platform, enabling an additional 14% of cells to be assigned to the correct donor from a multiplexed library. However, both the NextSeq 500 and MGISEQ-2000 detected similar frequencies of gRNAs from a pooled CRISPR single cell screen. Our study provides a benchmark for high capacity sequencing platforms applied to high-throughput single cell RNA-seq libraries.

Estimating the costs of genomic sequencing in cancer control
Diversification of TOLLIP isoforms in mouse and man
The adaptive response of anaerobically grown Saccharomyces cerevisiae to hydrogen peroxide is mediated by the Yap1 and Skn7 transcription factors
The molecular mechanisms involved in the ability of cells to adapt and respond to differing oxygen tensions are of great interest to the pharmaceutical, medical and fermentation industries. The transcriptional profiles reported in previous studies of cells grown under anaerobic, aerobic and dynamic growth conditions have shown significantly altered responses including induction of genes regulated by the oxidative stress transcription factor Yap1p when oxygen was present. The present study investigated the phenotypic changes that occur in cells when shifted from anaerobic to aerobic growth conditions and it was found through mutant analyses that the elevated activity of Yap1p during the shift was mediated by the phospholipid hydroperoxide-sensing protein encoded by GPX3. Cell viability and growth rate were unaffected even though anaerobically grown cells were found to be hypersensitive to low doses of the oxidative stress-inducing compound hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). Adaptation to H(2)O(2) treatment was demonstrated to occur when anaerobically grown wild-type cells were aerated for a short time that was reliant on the Yap1p and Skn7p transcription factors.

Zinc starvation induces a stress response in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that is mediated by the Msn2p and Msn4p transcriptional activators
During the production of wine and beer, the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae can encounter an environment that is deficient in zinc, resulting in a 'sluggish' or a 'stuck' ferment. It has been shown that the Zap1p-transcription factor induces the expression of a regulon in response to zinc deficiency; however, it was evident that a separate regulon was also activated during zinc deficiency in a Zap1p-independent manner. This study discovered the Msn2p and Msn4p (Msn2/4p) transcriptional activator proteins to be an additional control mechanism inducing the stress response during zinc deficiency. Promoter sequence analysis identified the stress-response element (STRE) motif, recognized by Msn2/4p, and was significantly enriched in the promoters of genes induced by zinc deficiency. An investigation using genome-wide analyses revealed a distinct regulon consisting of STRE-containing genes whose zinc-responsive expression was abolished in an msn2 msn4 double mutant. An STRE-driven lacZ reporter construct confirmed that expression of the genes within this regulon was perturbed by the deletion of MSN2 and MSN4 and also implicated Hog1p as a contributing factor. This research provides a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in the yeast response to zinc deficiency during fermentation.

Essential role of one-carbon metabolism and Gcn4p and Bas1p transcriptional regulators during adaptation to anaerobic growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae
The transcriptional activator Gcn4p is considered the master regulator of amino acid metabolism in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and is required for the transcriptional response to amino acid starvation. Here it is shown that Gcn4p plays a previously undescribed role in regulating adaptation to anaerobic growth. A gcn4 mutant exhibited a highly extended lag phase after a shift to anaerobiosis that was the result of l-serine depletion. In addition, the one-carbon metabolism and purine biosynthesis transcriptional regulator Bas1p were strictly required for anaerobic growth on minimal medium, and this was similarly due to l-serine limitation in bas1 mutants. The induction of one-carbon metabolism during anaerobiosis is needed to increase the supply of l-serine from the glycine and threonine pathways. Using a number of experimental approaches, we demonstrate that these transcription regulators play vital roles in regulating l-serine biosynthesis in the face of increased demand during adaptation to anaerobiosis. This increased l-serine requirement is most likely due to anaerobic remodeling of the cell wall, involving de novo synthesis of a large number of very serine-rich mannoproteins and an increase in the total serine content of the cell wall. During anaerobic starvation for l-serine, this essential amino acid is preferentially directed to the cell wall, indicating the existence of a regulatory mechanism to balance competing cellular demands.

The transcriptional and physiological alterations in brewers yeast when shifted from anaerobic to aerobic growth conditions
MAKING SENSE OF THE OXYGEN PARADOX AND FLAVOUR MANAGEMENT IN BEER FERMENTATIONS
DONE