Digital image scrambling using 2 D cellular automata
In this paper, we present a contents-based digital imageprotection technique using Cellular Automata Transforms (CAT). CAT has a huge number of combinations — gateway value — such as rule number, initial configuration, boundary condition and basis function type. CAT coefficients and digital image copyright are used to generate a new contents-based copyright message that will be stored in a database with CAT parameters. A possibility of copyright dispute will clearly show a copyright that is extracted from its received image and the saved contents-based copyright. The simulation results show that the proposed method is robust to attacks and is more secure than using the gray-scale contents-based method.

Comparative performance evaluation of WCA‐optimised non‐integer controller employed with WPG–DSPG–PHEV based isolated two‐area interconnected microgrid system
This study endeavours an effective frequency control of renewable-based isolated two-area interconnected microgrid (ICμG) without battery, incorporating wind power generation in area-1, dish-Stirling solar power generation system in area-2 and other common distributed generation systems such as diesel engine driven generator, plug-in hybrid electric vehicle, heat pump and freezer in both the areas. A recently developed heuristic optimisation technique called water cycle algorithm (WCA) is applied to optimally tune the parameters of the non-integer fractional-order proportional-integral-derivative (FOPID) controllers employed with ICμG. Application of WCA-based FOPID controllers in frequency control two-area ICμG without battery is a novel work. The comparative performance analysis of proportional-integral-derivative (PID), PID with filter and non-integer order-based FOPID controller with their gains tuned by particle swarm optimisation (PSO), improved PSO, firefly algorithm and WCA algorithms indicates the superiority of WCA-based FOPID controller's under different case studies (considering different load disturbances, wind speed variation with real data, and solar irradiance) in terms of frequency deviation, tie-line power, and objective function. Furthermore, the sensitivity analysis contemplates that WCA-optimised FOPID controller can withstand ±25% change in synchronising coefficient, +20% change in loading condition and ±25% change in frequency bias constant without resetting the gain values.

Maiden coordinated load frequency control strategy for ST‐AWEC‐GEC‐BDDG‐based independent three‐area interconnected microgrid system with the combined effect of diverse energy …
This work presents a maiden approach of coordinated frequency control of novel solar tower (ST)-Archimedes wave energy conversion (AWEC)-geothermal energy conversion (GEC)-biodiesel driven generator (BDDG)-energy storage (ES) units and direct current (DC) links based independent three-area interconnected microgrid system (ImGS). A recent metaheuristic technique, named butterfly optimisation algorithm (BOA) is applied to obtain the optimal gains of the controllers employed with the ImGS and system participation factors. The dynamic performance of proportional–integral derivative (PID), PID with filter (PIDN), proportional–fractional-order integral derivative (PFOID) controllers with their gains tuned by different algorithms such as particle swarm optimisation (PSO), firefly algorithm (FA), whale optimisation algorithm (WOA), and BOA have been compared. Further, the effect of ES units and DC links in all the areas is analysed first time in ImGS. The results have established the superiority of the BOA-based PFOID controllers under different real-world scenarios in terms of frequency deviation, tie-line power, and objective functions. Finally, rigorous sensitivity analysis has been conducted to evaluate the superiority of BOA-optimised PFOID controller towards preserving system stability of ImGS with ±25% change in synchronising tie-line coefficients and bias values, and +20% change in loading condition without resetting the nominal condition gain values.

Audio scrambling technique based on cellular automata
Grammatical evolution to design fractal curves with a given dimension
Lindenmayer grammars have frequently been applied to represent fractal curves. In this work, the ideas behind grammar evolution are used to automatically generate and evolve Lindenmayer grammars which represent fractal curves with a fractal dimension that approximates a predefined required value. For many dimensions, this is a nontrivial task to be performed manually. The procedure we propose closely parallels biological evolution because it acts through three different levels: a genotype (a vector of integers), a protein-like intermediate level (the Lindenmayer grammar), and a phenotype (the fractal curve). Variation acts at the genotype level, while selection is performed at the phenotype level (by comparing the dimensions of the fractal curves to the desired value).

Plug in hybrid vehicle-wind-diesel autonomous hybrid power system: Frequency control using FA and CSA optimized controller
Digital image scrambling based on elementary cellular automata
LFC for autonomous hybrid micro grid system of 3 unequal renewable areas using mine blast algorithm
This paper ensures the feasibility of the proposed 3-area hybrid micro grid system (3A-HµGS) comprising of highly intermittent energy sources like wind turbine generator (WTG), parabolic trough collector (PTC), and PV arrays. Renewable energy sources (RES) inherently set in power and frequency oscillations as these sources (RES) are extremely influenced by climatic behavior that’s why the erection of 3A-HµGS as a controlled dispatch able unit is in fact very difficult to be realized but this proposed system has considered diesel engine generator (DEG) as a back-up source and the energy storage system (ESS) like battery, ultra-capacitor and fuel cell as the dynamic devices to make it controllable and reliable. Unwanted frequency deviation has been restricted to a satisfactory limit through GA, PSO and MBA based proportional integral derivative (PID), proportional integral derivative with filter (PIDN) and 2 degree of freedom PID (2DOF-PID) controllers. MBA based 2DOF-PID controllers provide the best coordination among RES, ESS, and DEG to maintain the power quality of 3A-HµGS. A qualitative and quantitative analysis of the dynamic responses under all the controlling actions clearly exhibits the efficacy of the proposed system. Moreover, the system remains stable even after incorporation of natural disturbances like change in wind velocity and solar irradiances which ensure the feasibility and practicality of the proposed 3A-HµGS.

Integrated demand side management and generation control for frequency control of a microgrid using PSO and FA based controller
This paper applies demand side management (DSM) method as a new control strategy for frequency control in a microgrid powered by the diesel driven generator (DDG), wind and solar photovoltaic (PV) power sources. In order to level the frequency fluctuation due to intermittent power generation, the power consumption of the non-critical loads (i.e., heat pump, freezer) and power charging-discharging of plug-in hybrid vehicles (PHEV) are controlled through the controllers (PI/PID). The parameters of the controllers are optimized using Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) and Firefly Algorithm (FA). Different disturbance conditions such as step perturbation and random variations of load, solar PV and wind output power has been considered to investigate the performance of the microgrid. Simulation studies confirmed that the performance of the FA optimized PID controller is better than the PSO optimized PI/PID controllers and FA optimized PI controller in terms of frequency deviation and setting time.

Image clustering using color, texture and shape features
Content Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) is an approach for retrieving similar images from an image database based on automatically-derived image features. The quality of a retrieval system depends on the features used to describe image content. In this paper, we propose an image clustering system that takes a database of images as input and clusters them using kmeans clustering algorithm taking into consideration color, texture and shape features. Experimental results show that the combination of the three features brings about higher values of accuracy and precision.

Evaluation Feature Selection Technique on Classification by Using Evolutionary ELM Wrapper Method with Features Priorities [J]
Features’ selection is a dimension reduction technique that aims to enhance classification accuracy by removing unrelated and redundant features. The Wrapper approach, one features selection strategy, provides an accurate estimation of classification performance. In view of this, we propose a new model of Evolutionary Wrapper Feature selection. This model exploits Extreme Learning Machines (ELM) to evaluate selected subsets, comprising a Genetic Algorithm (GA) as a search algorithm to find a set of feature subsets. A priority was assigned to each feature when GA had explored the space of feature combinations. The use of priority avoids replacing one feature with another of higher priority. The goal of this model is to investigate the accuracy rate of using feature selection methods and the impact of using priority with the features. Two machine learning classifiers are considered: the ELM and the Support Vector Machine (SVM). The proposed model is piloted based on a Chronic Kidney Disease dataset (CKD) from UCI. Experimental results indicate that the proposed model can achieve a better accuracy rate with these two classifiers. In addition, it requires much less time to find the best subset of features.

Network intrusion detection using genetic algorithm to find best DNA signature
Bioinformatics is part of computer science that joins between computer programming and molecular biology. DNA consists of long sequence of nucleotides which formulates the genome. Our method is to generate normal signature sequence and alignment threshold value from processing the system training data and encode observed network connection into corresponding DNA nucleotides sequence, then to align the signature sequence with observed sequence to find similarity degree value and decide whether the connection is attack or normal.

Efficient enhancement on cellular automata for data mining
Cellular Automata (CA) is a discrete dynamical system consists of an array of identically programmed automata, or cells, which interact with one another in a neighborhood relationship and have definite state. It can be used to show how the elements of a system interact with each other. It has a complex and varied behavior whose behavior is completely specified in terms of a local relation. Represented as a uniform grid, the time advances in discrete steps and the laws are expressed in a small lockup table through which at each step each cell computes its new state from that of its neighbors. With Data Mining deal with process of clustering and classification of large amounts of data and getting new knowledge from the data this paper introduce a new cellular automata classifier model. The practical experiments showed that our model run about twice times faster than the old model with high accuracy as we will see through this paper.

Enhancing QuickSort algorithm using a dynamic pivot selection technique
Track on Numerical Methods and Algorithms.- New Techniques in Designing Finite Difference Domain Decomposition Algorithm for the Heat Equation.- A Fast Construction Algorithm for the Incidence Matrices of a Class of Symmetric Balanced Incomplete Block Designs.- ILUTP_Mem: A Space-Efficient Incomplete LU Preconditioner.- Optimal Gait Control for a Biped Locomotion Using Genetic Algorithm.- A Bayes Algorithm for the Multitask Pattern Recognition Problem - Direct and Decomposed Independent Approaches.- Energy Efficient Routing with Power Management to Increase Network Lifetime in Sensor Networks.- New Parameter for Balancing Two Independent Measures in Routing Path.- A Study on Efficient Key Distribution and Renewal in Broadcast Encryption.- Track on Parallel and Distributed Computing.- Self-Tuning Mechanism for Genetic Algorithms Parameters, an Application to Data-Object Allocation in the Web.- Digit-Serial AB 2 Systolic Array for Division in GF(2 m ).- Design and Experiment of a Communication-Aware Parallel Quicksort with Weighted Partition of Processors.- A Linear Systolic Array for Multiplication in GF(2 m ) for High Speed Cryptographic Processors.- Price Driven Market Mechanism for Computational Grid Resource Allocation.- A Novel LMS Method for Real-Time Network Traffic Prediction.- Dynamic Configuration between Proxy Caches within an Intranet.- A Market-Based Scheduler for JXTA-Based Peer-to-Peer Computing System.- Reducing on the Number of Testing Items in the Branches of Decision Trees.- CORBA-Based, Multi-threaded Distributed Simulation of Hierarchical DEVS Models: Transforming Model Structure into a Non-hierarchical One.- The Effects of Network Topology on Epidemic Algorithms.- A Systematic Database Summary Generation Using the Distributed Query Discovery System.- Parallel Montgomery Multiplication and Squaring over GF(2 m ) Based on Cellular Automata.- A Decision Tree Algorithm for Distributed Data Mining: Towards Network Intrusion Detection.- Maximizing Parallelism for Nested Loops with Non-uniform Dependences.- Fair Exchange to Achieve Atomicity in Payments of High Amounts Using Electronic Cash.- Gossip Based Causal Order Broadcast Algorithm.- Track on Signal Processing.- Intermediate View Synthesis from Stereoscopic Videoconference Images.- Extract Shape from Clipart Image Using Modified Chain Code - Rectangle Representation.- Control Messaging Channel for Distributed Computer Systems.- Scene-Based Video Watermarking for Broadcasting Systems.- Distortion-Free of General Information with Edge Enhanced Error Diffusion Halftoning.- Enhanced Video Coding with Error Resilience Based on Macroblock Data Manipulation.- Filtering of Colored Noise for Signal Enhancement.- Model-Based Human Motion Tracking and Behavior Recognition Using Hierarchical Finite State Automata.- Effective Digital Watermarking Algorithm by Contour Detection.- New Packetization Method for Error Resilient Video Communications.- A Video Mosaicking Technique with Self Scene Segmentation for Video Indexing.- Real-Time Video Watermarking for MPEG Streams.- A TCP-Friendly Congestion Control Scheme Using Hybrid Approach for Reducing Transmission Delay of Real-Time Video Stream.- Object Boundary Edge Selection Using Level-of-Detail Canny Edges.- Inverse Dithering through IMAP Estimation.- A Study on Neural Networks Using Taylor Series Expansion of Sigmoid Activation Function.- A Study on Neural Networks with Tapped Time Delays: Gas Concentration Estimation.- Speech Emotion Recognition and Intensity Estimation.- Speech Hiding Based on Auditory Wavelet.- Automatic Selecting Coefficient for Semi-blind Watermarking.- Track on Telecommunications.- Network Probabilistic Connectivity: Optimal Structures.- Differentiated Web Service System through Kernel-Level Realtime Scheduling and Load Balancing.- Adaptive CBT/Anycast Routing Algorithm for Multimedia Traffic Overload.- Achieving Fair New Call CAC for Heterogeneous Services in Wireless Networks.- Track on Visualization and Virtual and Augmented Reality.- Application of MCDF Operations in Digital Terrain Model Processing.- Visual Mining of Market Basket Association Rules.- Visualizing Predictive Models in Decision Tree Generation.- Track on Software Engineering.- A Model for Use Case Priorization Using Criticality Analysis.- Using a Goal-Refinement Tree to Obtain and Refine Organizational Requirements.- Using C++ Functors with Legacy C Libraries.- Debugging of Java Programs Using HDT with Program Slicing.- Frameworks as Web Services.- Exception Rules Mining Based on Negative Association Rules.- A Reduced Codification for the Logical Representation of Job Shop Scheduling Problems.- Action Reasoning with Uncertain Resources.- Track on Security Engineering.- Software Rejuvenation Approach to Security Engineering.- A Rollback Recovery Algorithm for Intrusion Tolerant Intrusion Detection System.- Design and Implementation of High-Performance Intrusion Detection System.- An Authenticated Key Agreement Protocol Resistant to a Dictionary Attack.- A Study on Marking Bit Size for Path Identification Method: Deploying the Pi Filter at the End Host.- Efficient Password-Based Authenticated Key Agreement Protocol.- A Two-Public Key Scheme Omitting Collision Problem in Digital Signature.- A Novel Data Encryption and Distribution Approach for High Security and Availability Using LU Decomposition.- An Efficient Conference Key Distribution System Based on Symmetric Balanced Incomplete Block Design.- Multiparty Key Agreement Protocol with Cheater Identification Based on Shamir Secret Sharing.- Security of Shen et al.'s Timestamp-Based Password Authentication Scheme.- ID-Based Authenticated Multiple-Key Agreement Protocol from Pairings.- A Fine-Grained Taxonomy of Security Vulnerability in Active Network Environments.- A Secure and Flexible Multi-signcryption Scheme.- User Authentication Protocol Based on Human Memorable Password and Using RSA.- Effective Packet Marking Approach to Defend against DDoS Attack.- A Relationship between Security Engineering and Security Evaluation.- A Relationship of Configuration Management Requirements between KISEC and ISO/IEC 15408.- Track on Information Systems and Information Technology.- Term-Specific Language Modeling Approach to Text Categorization.- Context-Based Proofreading of Structured Documents.- Implementation of New CTI Service Platform Using Voice XML.- Storing Together the Structural Information of XML Documents in Relational Databases.- Annotation Repositioning Methods in the XML Documents: Context-Based Approach.- Isolating and Specifying the Relevant Information of an Organizational Model: A Process Oriented Towards Information System Generation.- A Weighted Fuzzy Min-Max Neural Network for Pattern Classification and Feature Extraction.- The eSAIDA Stream Authentication Scheme.- An Object-Oriented Metric to Measure the Degree of Dependency Due to Unused Interfaces.- End-to-End QoS Management for VoIP Using DiffServ.- Multi-modal Biometircs System Using Face and Signature.- Track on Information Retrieval.- Using 3D Spatial Relationships for Image Retrieval by XML Annotation.- Association Inlining for Mapping XML DTDs to Relational Tables.- XCRAB: A Content and Annotation-Based Multimedia Indexing and Retrieval System.- An Efficient Cache Conscious Multi-dimensional Index Structure.- Track on Image Processing.- Tracking of Moving Objects Using Morphological Segmentation, Statistical Moments, and Radon Transform.- Feature Extraction and Correlation for Time-to-Impact Segmentation Using Log-Polar Images.- Object Mark Segmentation Algorithm Using Dynamic Programming for Poor Quality Images in Automated Inspection Process.- A Line-Based Pose Estimation Algorithm for 3-D Polyhedral Object Recognition.- Initialization Method for the Self-Calibration Using Minimal Two Images.- Face Recognition for Expressive Face Images.- Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test for Image Comparison.- Modified Radius-Vector Function for Shape Contour Description.- Image Corner Detection Using Radon Transform.- Analytical Comparison of Conventional and MCDF Operations in Image Processing.- On Extraction of Facial Features from Color Images.- Track on Networking.- An Architecture for Mobility Management in Mobile Computing Networks.- An Adaptive Security Model for Heterogeneous Networks Using MAUT and Simple Heuristics.- A Hybrid Restoration Scheme Based on Threshold Reaction Time in Optical Burst-Switched Networks.

Enhanced cellular automata for image noise removal
Cellular Automata (CA) are a type of complex system s based on simple and uniformly interconnected cells. They provide an excellent method to perform complex computations in a simple way. CA can be used in ima ge processing, because of the simplicity of mapping a digital image to a cellular automata and the ability of app lying different image processing operations in real time. Noise removal is considered to be an important applicatio n of image processing; digital images can be corrupted b y different types of noise during the image acquisiti on or transmission. In this paper we propose a CA model t hat deals with two types of noise: salt and pepper nois e, and uniform noise. Our results show that the proposed m o el removes more noise, compared with previous models.

Cellular automata equivalent to D0L systems
This paper describes an algorithm for the construction of a certain one-dimensional cellular automaton equivalent to a given D0L system. A cellular automaton is considered equivalent to an L-system if both generates the same words in the same order. Our cellular automata produce the same words and in the same order as the given D0L system for a finite number of derivations. There is no constraint to the D0L system considered, so the method is a general algorithm and can be used as a proof for an equivalence theorem. Key-Words: Cellular automata, Lindenmayer systems, parallel derivation grammar, theoretical computer science, formal languages

Cloud-edge network data processing based on user requirements using modify mapreduce algorithm and machine learning techniques
Edge computing extends cloud computing to enhancing network performance in terms of latency and network traffic of many applications such as: The Internet of Things (IoT), Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS), Machine to Machine (M2M) technologies, Industrial Internet, and Smart Cities. This extension aims at reducing data communication and transmission through the network. However, data processing is the main challenge facing edge computing. In this paper, we proposed a data processing framework based on both edge computing and cloud computing, that is performed by partitioning (classification and restructuring) of data schema on the edge computing level based on feature selection. These features are detected using MapReduce algorithm and a proposed machine learning subsystem built on user requirements. Our approach mainly relies on the assumption that the data sent by edge devices can be used in two forms, as control data (i.e. real-time analytics) and as knowledge extraction data (i.e. historical analytics).We evaluated the proposed framework based on the amount of transmitted, stored data and data retrieval time, the results show that both the amount of sending data was optimized and data retrieval time was highly decreased. Our evaluation was applied experimentally and theoretically on a hypothetical system in a kidney disease center.

Computational modeling of proteins based on cellular automata
The literature of building computational and mathematical
models of proteins is rich and diverse, since its practical
applications are of a vital importance in the development of many
fields. Modeling proteins is not a straightforward process and in
some modeling strategies, it requires to combine concepts from
different fields including physics, chemistry, thermodynamics,
and computer science. The focus here will be on models that
are based on the concept of cellular automata and equivalent
systems. Cellular automata are discrete computational models
that are capable of universal computation, in other words, they
are capable of doing any computation that a normal computer
can do. What is special about cellular automata is its ability
to produce complex and chaotic global behavior from local
interactions. The paper discusses the effort done so far by
the researchers community in this direction and proposes a
computational model of protein folding that is based on 3D
cellular automata. Unlike common models, the proposed model
maintains the basic properties of cellular automata and keeps a
realistic view of proteins operations. As in any cellular automata
model, the dimension, neighborhood, boundary, and rules were
specified. In addition, a discussion is given to clarify why these
parameters are in place and what possible alternatives can be
used in the protein folding context.

Computer-generated music using grammatical evolution
This is an electronic version of the paper presented at the Middle Eastern Simulation Multiconference (MESM) held in Amman (Jordan) on 2008

Application of local rules and cellular automata in representing protein translation and enhancing protein folding approximation
DONE