ROADMAP: extending the Gaia methodology for complex open systems
This paper is concerned with improving the software engineering of agent-based open systems. It critiques the existing Gaia methodology in the light of a motivating example of intelligent home networks. It describes the ROADMAP1 methodology, which extends Gaia with four improvements - formal models of knowledge and the environment, role hierarchies, explicit representation of social structures and relationships, and incorporation of dynamic changes.

Effect of COVID-19 pandemic lockdowns on planned cancer surgery for 15 tumour types in 61 countries: an international, prospective, cohort study
Planning over multi-agent epistemic states: A classical planning approach

 
 Many AI applications involve the interaction of multiple autonomous agents, requiring those agents to reason about their own beliefs, as well as those of other agents. However, planning involving nested beliefs is known to be computationally challenging. In this work, we address the task of synthesizing plans that necessitate reasoning about the beliefs of other agents. We plan from the perspective of a single agent with the potential for goals and actions that involve nested beliefs, non-homogeneous agents, co-present observations, and the ability for one agent to reason as if it were another. We formally characterize our notion of planning with nested belief, and subsequently demonstrate how to automatically convert such problems into problems that appeal to classical planning technology. Our approach represents an important first step towards applying the well-established field of automated planning to the challenging task of planning involving nested beliefs of multiple agents.
 


Short-term planning for open pit mines: a review
This review examines the current state-of-the-art in short-term planning for open-pit mines, with a granularity that spans days, weeks or months, and a horizon of less than one to two years. In the academic literature, the short-term planning problem for open-pit mines has not been as widely considered as that for the medium- and long-term horizons. We highlight the differences between short- and longer term planning in terms of both the level of detail to which a mine site is modelled, and the objectives that are optimised when making decisions. We summarise the range of techniques that have been developed for generating short-term plans, capturing both mathematical programming-based methods and heuristic approaches using local-search and decomposition. We identify key challenges and future directions in which to advance the state-of-the-art in short-term planning for open-pit mines.

Rulegraphs for graph matching in pattern recognition
Situation Calculus Based Programs for Representing and Reasoning about Game Structures.
A wide range of problems, from contingent and multi-agent planning to process/service orchestration, can be viewed as games. In many of these, it is natural to specify the possible behaviors procedurally. In this paper, we develop a logical framework for specifying these types of problems/games based on the situation calculus and ConGolog. The framework incorporates game-theoretic path quantifiers as in ATL. We show that the framework can be used to model such problems in a natural way. We also show how verification/synthesis techniques can be used to solve problems expressed in the framework. In particular, we develop a method for dealing with infinite state settings using fixpoint approximation and "characteristic graphs".

Action selection for transparent planning
We introduce a novel framework to formalize and solve transparent planning tasks by executing actions selected in a suitable and timely fashion. A transparent planning task is defined as a task where the objective of the agent is to communicate its true goal to observers, thereby making its intentions and its action selection transparent. We formally define and model these tasks as Goal POMDPs where the state space is the Cartesian product of the states of the world and a given set of hypothetical goals. Action effects are deterministic in the world states of the problem but probabilistic in the observer's beliefs. Transition probabilities are obtained from making a call to a model-based plan recognition algorithm, which we refer to as an observer stereotype. We propose an action selection strategy via on-line planning that seeks actions to quickly convey the goal being pursued to an observer assumed to fit a given stereotype. In order to keep run-times feasible, we propose a novel model-based plan recognition algorithm that approximates well-known probabilistic plan recognition methods. The resulting on-line planner, after being evaluated over a diverse set of domains and three different observer stereotypes, is found to convey goal information faster than purely goal-directed planners.

Plan recognition in military simulation: Incorporating machine learning with intelligent agents
A view of plan recognition shaped by both operational and computational requirements is presented. Operational requirements governing the level of delity and nature of the reasoning process combine with computational requirements including performance speed and software engineering e ort to constrain the types of solutions available to the software developer. By adopting machine learning to provide spatio-temporal recognition of environmental events and relationships, an agent can be provided with a mechanism for mental state recognition qualitatively di erent from previous research. An architecture for integrating machine learning into a BDI agent is suggested and the results from the development of a prototype provide proof-of-concept.

Integrated Hybrid Planning and Programmed Control for Real Time UAV Maneuvering
The automatic generation of realistic behaviour such as tactical intercepts for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) in air combat is a challenging problem. State-of-the-art solutions propose hand--crafted algorithms and heuristics whose performance depends heavily on the initial conditions and aerodynamic properties of the UAVs involved. This paper shows how to employ domain--independent planners, embedded into professional multi--agent simulations, to implement two--level Model Predictive Control (MPC) hybrid control systems for simulated UAVs. We compare the performance of controllers using planners with others based on behaviour trees that implement real world tactics. Our results indicate that hybrid planners derive novel and effective tactics from first principles inherent to the dynamical constraints UAVs are subject to.

A distributed agent approach to global transportation scheduling
A suitable method for distributed transportation scheduling is necessary for the development of an agent-based logistics support system for the Australian Defence Force. Manager Agents (MA) require resources to be transported, in large quantities and on a global scale, using the services of many transport agents (TA). We investigate the application of K. Fischer et al.'s (1996) Extended Contract Net Protocol (ECNP) to our transportation domain. ECNP provides a distributed and reactive approach to transportation scheduling that is fairly suited to this domain, but has its shortfalls. This includes the inability for TA to bid for partial routes, in addition to partial quantities, for a transportation task. A new protocol is proposed, based on ECNP, called the Provisional Agreement Protocol (PAP), which overcomes these shortfalls. Five speech acts, together with policies regarding the persistence and commitment of tasks and bids, are proposed. This allows agents to revisit bid options that were previously selected, and thus accomodates bidding for partial routes.

A decomposition-based algorithm for the scheduling of open-pit networks over multiple time periods
We consider the multiple-time-period, short-term production scheduling problem for a network of multiple open-pit mines and ports. Ore produced at each mine, in each period, is transported by rail to a set of ports and blended into products for shipping. Each port forms these blends to a specification, as stipulated in contracts with downstream customers. This problem belongs to a class of multiple producer/consumer scheduling problems in which producers are able to generate a range of products, a combination of which are required by consumers to meet specified demands. In practice, short-term schedules are formed independently at each mine, tasked with achieving a grade and quality target outlined in a medium-term plan. Because of uncertainty in the data available to a medium-term planner and the dynamics of the mining environment, such targets may not be feasible in the short term. In this paper, we present an algorithm in which the grade and quality targets assigned to each mine are iteratively adapted, ensuring the satisfaction of blending constraints at each port while generating schedules for each mine that maximise resource utilisation. 
 
This paper was accepted by Yinyu Ye, optimization.

Short-term scheduling of an open-pit mine with multiple objectives
ABSTRACT This article presents a novel algorithm for the generation of multiple short-term production schedules for an open-pit mine, in which several objectives, of varying priority, characterize the quality of each solution. A short-term schedule selects regions of a mine site, known as ‘blocks’, to be extracted in each week of a planning horizon (typically spanning 13 weeks). Existing tools for constructing these schedules use greedy heuristics, with little optimization. To construct a single schedule in which infrastructure is sufficiently utilized, with production grades consistently close to a desired target, a planner must often run these heuristics many times, adjusting parameters after each iteration. A planner's intuition and experience can evaluate the relative quality and mineability of different schedules in a way that is difficult to automate. Of interest to a short-term planner is the generation of multiple schedules, extracting available ore and waste in varying sequences, which can then be manually compared. This article presents a tool in which multiple, diverse, short-term schedules are constructed, meeting a range of common objectives without the need for iterative parameter adjustment.

Data-centric routing using Bloom filters in wireless sensor networks
This paper presents a paradigm for reducing communication costs in wireless sensor networks. The first component is our Distributed Asynchronous Clustering protocol (DAC), which self-organises the network into an infrastructure that supports in-network processing, routing, and deployment. The second component, and the focus of this paper, is a data-centric routing protocol where cluster heads build and maintain sets of Bloom filters to inform routing decisions and filter out unproductive messages. While other data-centric protocols use a flat topology and rely to some extent on flooding, our protocol exploits a two tier hierarchy to provide an adaptable, scalable, and intelligent routing service that is expected to reduce the number of transmissions and extend network lifetime.

Outcomes of gynecologic cancer surgery during the COVID-19 pandemic: an international, multicenter, prospective CovidSurg-Gynecologic Oncology Cancer study
Property persistence in the situation calculus
Distributed information fusion agents
Information fusion is typically data driven and applied to adversarial contexts. Advantages of a goal driven fusion process are emerging. An agent approach to fusion applied to friendly contexts, such as logistics, is presented. Agents are suitable for fusion because they can represent autonomous fusion eritities by modelling their capabilities, expertise and intentions. This paper promotes a level 3 centric view of information fusion, and focuses on impact and situation fusion. Extended Contract Net Protocol (ECNP) provides a distributed fusion approach, but has its shortfalls for the fusion domain. Provisional Agreement Prorocol (PAP) is an extension of the ECNP. It allows backtracking and a deliberative approach to fusion. Details of PAP are presented.

Planning for mining operations with time and resource constraints

 
 We study a daily mine planning problem where, given a set of blocks we wishto mine, our task is to generate a mining sequence for the excavators suchthat blending resource constraints are met at various stages of thesequence. Such time-oriented resource constraintsare not traditionally handled well by automated planners. On the other hand,the remaining problem involves finding node-disjoint sequences withstate-dependent travel times on the arcs, which are highly challenging for a Mixed-Integer Program (MIP).In this paper, we address the problem of finding feasible sequences using a combined MIP and planning based decomposition approach. The MIP takes care of the resource constraints, and the planner solves the remaining sequence problem. We extend the notion of finding feasible sequences to finding good feasible sequences, by devising a heuristic objective function in the MIP, which improves the resulting search space for the planner.We empirically analyse the scalability of our approach on a benchmark data set, before demonstrating its effectiveness on a real world case study provided by our industry partner. These results demonstrate that by using a heuristic MIP, it is possible to obtain better makespan results with a suboptimal planner than by using an optimal planner with an uninformed MIP.
 


A decomposition-based heuristic for collaborative scheduling in a network of open-pit mines
We consider the short-term production scheduling problem for a network of multiple open-pit mines and ports. Ore produced at each mine is transported by rail to a set of ports and blended into signature products for shipping. Consistency in the grade and quality of production over time is critical for customer satisfaction, whereas the maximal production of blended products is required to maximise profit. In practice, short-term schedules are formed independently at each mine, tasked with achieving the grade and quality targets outlined in a medium-term plan. However, because of uncertainty in the data available to a medium-term planner and the dynamics of the mining environment, such targets may not be feasible in the short term. We present a decomposition-based heuristic for this short-term scheduling problem in which the grade and quality goals assigned to each mine are collaboratively adapted---ensuring the satisfaction of blending constraints at each port and exploiting opportunities to maximise production in the network that would otherwise be missed.

Agents in logistics planning-experiences with the coalition agents experiment project
Military logistics planning is a complex process, involving many calculations, satisfaction of constraints, and cooperation amongst many organisational entities that provide services in order to achieve military logistics goals. Multi-Agent Logistics Tool (MALT) is a project aimed at supporting military logistics planning. MALT is being developed using agent technology, where agents represent the organisations within the logistics domain, and model their logistics functions, processes, expertise, and interactions with other organisations. Agents are a suitable technology for modelling organisations within MALT, due to the similarity in characteristics between organisations and agents. A component of MALT was implemented within DARPA’s Coalition Agent Experiment (CoAX) project. We discuss the CoAX implementation of MALT, and lessons learnt. We discovered that implementing a centralised agent planning approach within MALT, and hence the decentralised military (operational) logistics planning domain, may not always be appropriate, and that a decentralised agent planning approach may be more suitable. Some of our observations regarding the future of agents for military logistics planning are discussed.

Sequencing Operator Counts.

 
 Operator-counting is a recently developed framework for analysing and integrating many state-of-the-art heuristics for planning using Linear Programming. In cost-optimal planning only the objective value of these heuristics is traditionally used to guide the search. However the primal solution, i.e. the operator counts, contains useful information. We exploit this information using a SAT-based approach which given an operator-count, either finds a valid plan; or generates a generalized landmark constraint violated by that count. We show that these generalized landmarks can be used to encode the perfect heuristic, h*, as a Mixed Integer Program. Our most interesting experimental result is that finding or refuting a sequence for an operator-count is most often empirically efficient, enabling a novel and promising approach to planning based on Logic-Based Benders Decomposition (LBBD).
 


DONE