Communication over MIMO X channels: Interference alignment, decomposition, and performance analysis
In a multiple-antenna system with two transmitters and two receivers, a scenario of data communication, known as the X channel, is studied in which each receiver receives data from both transmitters. In this scenario, it is assumed that each transmitter is unaware of the other transmitter's data (noncooperative scenario). This system can be considered as a combination of two broadcast channels (from the transmitters' points of view) and two multiple-access channels (from the receivers' points of view). Taking advantage of both perspectives, two signaling schemes for such a scenario are developed. In these schemes, some linear filters are employed at the transmitters and at the receivers which decompose the system into either two noninterfering multiple-antenna broadcast subchannels or two noninterfering multiple-antenna multiple-access subchannels. The main objective in the design of the filters is to exploit the structure of the channel matrices to achieve the highest multiplexing gain (MG). It is shown that the proposed noncooperative signaling schemes outperform other known noncooperative schemes in terms of the achievable MG. In particular, it is shown that in some specific cases, the achieved MG is the same as the MG of the system if full cooperation is provided either between the transmitters or between the receivers. In the second part of the paper, it is shown that by using mixed design schemes, rather than decomposition schemes, and taking the statistical properties of the interference terms into account, the power offset of the system can be improved. The power offset represents the horizontal shift in the curve of the sum-rate versus the total power in decibels.

Capacity bounds for the Gaussian interference channel
The capacity region of the two-user Gaussian interference channel (IC) is studied. Two classes of channels are considered: weak and mixed Gaussian IC. For the weak Gaussian IC, a new outer bound on the capacity region is obtained that outperforms previously known outer bounds. The sum capacity for a certain range of channel parameters is derived. For this range, it is proved that using Gaussian codebooks and treating interference as noise is optimal. It is shown that when Gaussian codebooks are used, the full Han-Kobayashi (HK) achievable rate region can be obtained by using the naive HK achievable scheme over three frequency bands. For the mixed Gaussian IC, a new outer bound is obtained that outperforms previously known outer bounds. For this case, the sum capacity for the entire range of channel parameters is derived. It is proved that the full HK achievable rate region using Gaussian codebooks is equivalent to that of the one-sided Gaussian IC for a particular range of channel parameters.

Real interference alignment: Exploiting the potential of single antenna systems
In this paper, we develop the machinery of real interference alignment. This machinery is extremely powerful in achieving the sum degrees of freedom (DoF) of single antenna systems. The scheme of real interference alignment is based on designing single-layer and multilayer constellations used for modulating information messages at the transmitters. We show that constellations can be aligned in a similar fashion as that of vectors in multiple antenna systems and space can be broken up into fractional dimensions. The performance analysis of the signaling scheme makes use of a recent result in the field of Diophantine approximation, which states that the convergence part of the Khintchine-Groshev theorem holds for points on nondegenerate manifolds. Using real interference alignment, we obtain the sum DoF of two model channels, namely the Gaussian interference channel (IC) and the X channel. It is proved that the sum DoF of the K-user IC is (K/2) for almost all channel parameters. We also prove that the sum DoF of the X-channel with K transmitters and M receivers is (K M/K + M - 1) for almost all channel parameters.

Signaling over MIMO multi-base systems: Combination of multi-access and broadcast schemes
A new structure for multi-base systems is studied in which each user receives data from two nearby base stations, rather than only from the strongest one. This system can be considered as a combination of broadcast and multi-access channels. By taking advantages of both perspectives, an achievable rate region for a discrete memoryless channel modeled by Pr(y1,y2|x1,x2 ) is derived. In this model, x1 and x2 represent the transmitted signals by the transmitter one and two, respectively, and y1 and y2 denote the received signals by the receiver one and two, respectively. In this derivation, it is assumed that each transmitter is unaware of the data of the other transmitter, and therefore x1 and x2 are independent. To investigate the advantage of this scheme, an efficient signaling method which works at a corner point of the achievable region for multiple-antenna scenarios is developed. In the proposed scheme, each base station only requires the state information of the channels between the other base station and each user. In this paper, the signaling scheme is elaborated for the case that each transmitter/receiver is equipped with three antennas. It is proven that in such a scenario, the multiplexing gain of four is achievable, which outperforms any other conventional schemes

Multi-server coded caching
In this paper, we consider multiple cache-enabled clients connected to multiple servers through an intermediate network. We design several topology-aware coding strategies for such networks. Based on the topology richness of the intermediate network, and types of coding operations at internal nodes, we define three classes of networks, namely, dedicated, flexible, and linear networks. For each class, we propose an achievable coding scheme, analyze its coding delay, and also compare it with an information theoretic lower bound. For flexible networks, we show that our scheme is order-optimal in terms of coding delay and, interestingly, the optimal memory-delay curve is achieved in certain regimes. In general, our results suggest that, in the case of networks with multiple servers, type of network topology can be exploited to reduce service delay.

Interference alignment for the K user MIMO interference channel
We consider the K user Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) Gaussian interference channel with M antennas at each transmitter and N antennas at each receiver. It is assumed that channel coefficients are fixed and are available at all transmitters and at all receivers. The main objective of this paper is to characterize the total Degrees Of Freedom (DOF) for this channel. Using a new interference alignment technique which has been recently introduced in [1], we show that MN over M+N K degrees of freedom can be achieved for almost all channel realizations. Also, a new upper-bound on the total DOF for this channel is derived. This upper-bound coincides with our achievable DOF for K ≥ Ku ≜ M+N over gcd(M,N) where gcd(M,N) denotes the greatest common divisor of M and N. This gives an exact characterization of DOF for MIMO Gaussian interference channel in the case of K ≥ Ku.

Information theory of DNA shotgun sequencing
DNA sequencing is the basic workhorse of modern day biology and medicine. Shotgun sequencing is the dominant technique used: many randomly located short fragments called reads are extracted from the DNA sequence, and these reads are assembled to reconstruct the original sequence. A basic question is: given a sequencing technology and the statistics of the DNA sequence, what is the minimum number of reads required for reliable reconstruction? This number provides a fundamental limit to the performance of any assembly algorithm. For a simple statistical model of the DNA sequence and the read process, we show that the answer admits a critical phenomenon in the asymptotic limit of long DNA sequences: if the read length is below a threshold, reconstruction is impossible no matter how many reads are observed, and if the read length is above the threshold, having enough reads to cover the DNA sequence is sufficient to reconstruct. The threshold is computed in terms of the Renyi entropy rate of the DNA sequence. We also study the impact of noise in the read process on the performance.

On the degrees of freedom of X channel with delayed CSIT
We consider the X channel and the 3-user X network with independent and identically distributed fading across antennas and channel uses and with the delayed channel state information at the transmitters (CSIT). We provide new results for degrees of freedom of these channels. Specifically, we show that the single antenna X channel with delayed CSIT can achieve 6 over 5 degrees of freedom while the 3-user X network can achieve 5 over 4 degrees of freedom.

Communication over X channel: Signalling and multiplexing gain
The outdoor line-of-sight (LOS) mobile communication environment is a channel with little electromagnetic wave scattering (poor scattering). In such a mobile radio channel environment, the spatial multiplexing method hardly works in the MIMO system, which has been adopted for high-speed communication of 10Mbps or more over a long distance of 50km or more. A new technology that has recently been watched in the field of wireless communication is reconfigurable intelligent surfaces (RIS). RIS aims to deterministically and intentionally change the propagation environment in order to increase signal quality in the receiver. This paper is a preliminary study to propose a technique that can implement the full rank of the channel in an interference channel environment with little electromagnetic wave scattering. This paper analyzes the channel capacity of the $2\times 2$ line of sight multiple input/output (LOS-MIMO) system and the possibility of achieving the maximum channel capacity when the intelligent radio reflector is used.

The secrecy capacity region of the Gaussian MIMO broadcast channel
In this paper, we consider a scenario where a source node wishes to broadcast two confidential messages for two respective receivers via a Gaussian multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) broadcast channel. An eavesdropper also receives the transmitted signal via another MIMO channel. We first consider the discrete memoryless channel and obtain the capacity region of the degraded channel. The secret dirty paper coding (SDPC) region as an achievable rate region for the general discrete channel is introduced. Relying on the results for the discrete channel, we fully characterize the secrecy capacity region of MIMO broadcast channel. It is shown that the SDPC scheme is optimal. The converse part of the proof relies on the generalized Costa's entropy power inequality and a new channel enhancement strategy in which we only need to enhance the channels of the legitimate receivers, and the channel of the eavesdropper remains unchanged.

Interference alignment for the MIMO interference channel with delayed local CSIT
We consider the MIMO (multiple-input multiple-output) Gaussian interference channel with i.i.d. fading across antennas and channel uses and with the delayed local channel state information at the transmitters (CSIT). For the two-user case, achievability results for the degrees of freedom (DoF) region of this channel are provided. We also prove the tightness of our achievable DoF region for some antenna configurations. Interestingly, there are some cases in which the DoF region with delayed local CSIT is identical to the DoF region with perfect CSIT and that is strictly larger than the DoF region with no CSIT. We then consider the $K$-user MISO (multiple-input single-output) IC and show that the degrees of freedom of this channel could be greater than one with delayed local CSIT.

Relay-aided interference alignment for the quasi-static interference channel
In this paper, we first investigate the Degrees Of Freedom (DOF) for the M-user Interference Channel (IC) in static environments with the help of a MIMO relay. The relay stores the received signal during the first time-slot and sends a linearly-transformed version over the next time-slot. Using this scheme, it is shown that Interference Alignment can be done with much less complexity. Having very loose constraints on the channel structure, the proposed method calculates a proper choice for the relay gains such that the M-user IC is able to achieve a DOF of M over 2. It is also proved that if the relay's output power scales as P over (log P)t where P is the power of the transmitters, there is no loss in the achieved DOF. This result is true for all positive and negative ranges of t. In other words, in an M-user IC with quasi-static channel gains, it is possible to achieve M over 2 DOF through the use of a MIMO relay whose power grows at a rate slower than that of the transmitters. Similarly, a network of low-power users can benefit from our proposed method if the relay power scales faster than the power of the main transmitters. The results of this paper are valuable when being applied to a practical system. While it is very difficult to use Interference Alignment in M-user IC setup, adding a relay can make alignment more affordable by simplifying the transmitter/receiver structure.

Signal space cooperative communication
In this paper, a single-hop single-relay system with a direct link between the source and the destination is considered when the relay operates in the half-duplex mode. Motivated by the concept of signal space diversity, this paper introduces signal space cooperation, in which cooperation between the source and the relay is achieved using a novel constellation design. In this approach, the original constellation is expanded so that the expanded constellation consists of all possible combinations of different components of signal points in the original constellation. The expanded constellation enables the relay to extract the required information in order to effectively cooperate in the relay phase, and it helps the destination to efficiently combine received signals during the broadcast phase and the relay phase. The analytical study of the proposed scheme leads to the development of two design criteria for the constellation expansion. Numerical results depict superior performance in comparison with other cooperative schemes, such as the distributed turbo coded cooperative schemes and the trans-modulation scheme.

X-MIMO systems with multi-transmitters and multi-receivers
This paper presents a comprehensive study of Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) Tomographic Synthetic Aperture Radar (TSAR) and its application in the automotive industry for enhancing active safety features. We explore the utilization of MIMO TSAR in capturing 4D environmental data (range, distance, speed, and material properties), essential for object detection, recognition, and high-resolution imaging. The cornerstone of our approach lies in exploiting the geometric diversity inherent in radar imaging. By deploying transmitters and receivers in multiple states, we enhance the information richness in the measurement domain. This configuration allows for a more detailed and accurate reconstruction of the environment, crucial for automotive applications such as parking assistance and collision avoidance. Our MIMO TSAR system reconstructs images by solving the inverse problem of the linear relationship between the target’s contrast function and the measured scattering field under the first-order Born approximation. This method is resolution independent from bandwidth frequency, allowing us to operate imaging through a single frequency. We propose a novel technique that starts with creating low-cost, low-resolution tomographic images using a single frequency, followed by synthesizing these into a high-resolution multiband image. This approach significantly speeds up the TSAR reconstruction process, making it more suitable for real-time automotive applications. Furthermore, we introduce an adaptive super-resolution method to reconstruct 3D Radio Frequency tomographic images in the X-band. This method is especially beneficial in the automotive field, where higher resolution images are desirable but often restricted by bandwidth and power regulations. Our computational experiments, demonstrated, use 19 transmitters and 51 receivers arranged in a circular geometry, covering a frequency range from 1 GHz to 18 GHz. Our approach’s viability is demonstrated through computational experiments using FEKO and MATLAB, showcasing its potential in enhancing automotive safety. This setup showcases our system’s capability to capture high-resolution 3D tomographic images, providing detailed information about object shapes and materials in the measurement domain. In summary, our paper proposes a groundbreaking approach to MIMO TSAR, offering the automotive industry a cost-effective, high-resolution imaging solution. This technique has the potential to revolutionize safety features in vehicles by providing more accurate and faster environmental assessment and decision-making capabilities.

On the capacity of the half-duplex diamond channel
In this paper, a dual-hop communication system composed of a source S and a destination D connected through two non-interfering half-duplex relays, R1 and R2, is considered. In the literature of Information Theory, this configuration is known as the diamond channel. In this setup, four transmission modes are present, namely: 1) S transmits, and R1 and R2 listen (broadcast mode), 2) S transmits, R1 listens, and simultaneously, R2 transmits and D listens. 3) S transmits, R2 listens, and simultaneously, R1 transmits and D listens. 4) R1, R2 transmit, and D listens (multiple-access mode). Assuming a constant power constraint for all transmitters, a parameter Δ is defined, which captures some important features of the channel. It is proven that for Δ=0 the capacity of the channel can be attained by successive relaying, i.e, using modes 2 and 3 defined above in a successive manner. This strategy may have an infinite gap from the capacity of the channel when Δ≠0. To achieve rates as close as 0.71 bits to the capacity, it is shown that the cases of Δ > 0 and Δ < 0 should be treated differently. Using new upper bounds based on the dual problem of the linear program associated with the cut-set bounds, it is proven that the successive relaying strategy needs to be enhanced by an additional broadcast mode (mode 1), or multiple access mode (mode 4), for the cases of Δ < 0 and Δ > 0, respectively. Furthermore, it is established that under average power constraints the aforementioned strategies achieve rates as close as 3.6 bits to the capacity of the channel.

Relay-aided interference alignment for the quasi-static X channel
In this paper, we first introduce a simple procedure for aligning interference directions in an M×N user MIMO X channel. The scheme is then modified for an M×2 user X channel in which each user is equipped with M + 1 antennas. Next we investigate the Degrees Of Freedom (DOF) for a single antenna X channel in slow fading environments with the help of a simple relay. The relay stores all the received signals and sends their linear combination in subsequent transmissions. Using this scheme, it is shown that adding a relay can help the system to achieve all the available DOF. It is also proved that if the relay's output power scales with P/(log P)s, there is no loss in the achieved DOF as long as s ≫ 0. In other words, in a network with quasi-static channels, it is possible to achieve a higher DOF through the use of randomizing relays whose powers grow at a much slower rate than the main transmitters. Similarly, when there are stricter constraints on the output power scaling of the transmitters, all the DOF can still be utilized, if the relay power can grow with P/(log P)t for any t ≫ 0. These results suggest that adding relays to a network can be beneficial in terms of simultaneously acquiring higher DOF.

On the secure degrees-of-freedom of the multiple-access-channel
A $K$-user secure Gaussian Multiple-Access-Channel (MAC) with an external eavesdropper is considered in this paper. An achievable rate region is established for the secure discrete memoryless MAC. The secrecy sum capacity of the degraded Gaussian MIMO MAC is proven using Gaussian codebooks. For the non-degraded Gaussian MIMO MAC, an algorithm inspired by interference alignment technique is proposed to achieve the largest possible total Secure-Degrees-of-Freedom (S-DoF). When all the terminals are equipped with a single antenna, Gaussian codebooks have shown to be inefficient in providing a positive S-DoF. Instead, a novel secure coding scheme is proposed to achieve a positive S-DoF in the single antenna MAC. This scheme converts the single-antenna system into a multiple-dimension system with fractional dimensions. The achievability scheme is based on the alignment of signals into a small sub-space at the eavesdropper, and the simultaneous separation of the signals at the intended receiver. Tools from the field of Diophantine Approximation in number theory are used to analyze the probability of error in the coding scheme. It is proven that the total S-DoF of $\frac{K-1}{K}$ can be achieved for almost all channel gains. For the other channel gains, a multi-layer coding scheme is proposed to achieve a positive S-DoF. As a function of channel gains, therefore, the achievable S-DoF is discontinued.

The secrecy rate region of the broadcast channel
In this paper, we consider a scenario where a source node wishes to broadcast two confidential messages for two respective receivers, while a wire-tapper also receives the transmitted signal. This model is motivated by wireless communications, where individual secure messages are broadcast over open media and can be received by any illegitimate receiver. The secrecy level is measured by equivocation rate at the eavesdropper. We first study the general (non-degraded) broadcast channel with confidential messages. We present an inner bound on the secrecy capacity region for this model. The inner bound coding scheme is based on a combination of random binning and the Gelfand-Pinsker bining. This scheme matches the Marton's inner bound on the broadcast channel without confidentiality constraint. We further study the situation where the channels are degraded. For the degraded broadcast channel with confidential messages, we present the secrecy capacity region. Our achievable coding scheme is based on Cover's superposition scheme and random binning. We refer to this scheme as Secret Superposition Scheme. In this scheme, we show that randomization in the first layer increases the secrecy rate of the second layer. This capacity region matches the capacity region of the degraded broadcast channel without security constraint. It also matches the secrecy capacity for the conventional wire-tap channel. Our converse proof is based on a combination of the converse proof of the conventional degraded broadcast channel and Csiszar lemma. Finally, we assume that the channels are Additive White Gaussian Noise (AWGN) and show that secret superposition scheme with Gaussian codebook is optimal. The converse proof is based on the generalized entropy power inequality.

Forming pseudo-mimo by embedding infinite rational dimensions along a single real line: Removing barriers in achieving the dofs of single antenna systems
TheK-user single-antenna Gaussian Interference Channel (GIC) is considered, where the channel coefficients are NOT necessarily time-variant or frequency selective. I t is proved that the total Degrees-Of-Freedom (DOF) of this channel is 2 almost surly, i.e. each user enjoys half of its maximum DOF. I ndeed, we prove that the static time-invariant interference channels are rich enou gh which allow simultaneous interference alignment at all receivers. To derive this result, we show that single-an ten a interference channels can be treated as pseudo multiple-antenna systems with infinitely-many antennas, as many as rationally-indep endent irrational numbers. Such machinery enables us to prove that the real or complex M ×M Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) GIC achieves its total DOF, i.e., MK 2 , M ≥ 1. The pseudo multiple-antenna systems are developed based o n a recent result in the field of Diophantie approximation which states hat the convergence part of the Khintchine-Groshev theorem holds for points on non-degenerate manifolds.

Secure broadcasting: The secrecy rate region
In this paper, we consider a scenario where a source node wishes to broadcast two confidential messages for two respective receivers, while a wire-tapper also receives the transmitted signal. This model is motivated by wireless communications, where individual secure messages are broadcast over open media and can be received by any illegitimate receiver. The secrecy level is measured by equivocation rate at the eavesdropper. We first study the general (non-degraded) broadcast channel with confidential messages. We present an inner bound on the secrecy capacity region for this model. The inner bound coding scheme is based on a combination of random binning and the Gelfand-Pinsker bining. This scheme matches the Marton's inner bound on the broadcast channel without confidentiality constraint. We further study the situation where the channels are degraded. For the degraded broadcast channel with confidential messages, we present the secrecy capacity region. Our achievable coding scheme is based on Cover's superposition scheme and random binning. We refer to this scheme as secret superposition scheme. In this scheme, we show that randomization in the first layer increases the secrecy rate of the second layer. This capacity region matches the capacity region of the degraded broadcast channel without security constraint. It also matches the secrecy capacity for the conventional wire-tap channel. Our converse proof is based on a combination of the converse proof of the conventional degraded broadcast channel and Csiszar lemma.

DONE