Evalvid–a framework for video transmission and quality evaluation
Wireless technology in industrial networks
With the success of wireless technologies in consumer electronics, standard wireless technologies are envisioned for the deployment in industrial environments as well. Industrial applications involving mobile subsystems or just the desire to save cabling make wireless technologies attractive. Nevertheless, these applications often have stringent requirements on reliability and timing. In wired environments, timing and reliability are well catered for by fieldbus systems (which are a mature technology designed to enable communication between digital controllers and the sensors and actuators interfacing to a physical process). When wireless links are included, reliability and timing requirements are significantly more difficult to meet, due to the adverse properties of the radio channels. In this paper, we thus discuss some key issues coming up in wireless fieldbus and wireless industrial communication systems: 1) fundamental problems like achieving timely and reliable transmission despite channel errors; 2) the usage of existing wireless technologies for this specific field of applications; and 3) the creation of hybrid systems in which wireless stations are incorporated into existing wired systems.

Distributed algorithms for transmission power control in wireless sensor networks
In a wireless, multi-hop sensor network, choosing transmission power levels has an important impact on energy efficiency and network lifetime. Two algorithms for dynamically adjusting transmission power level on a per-node basis are proposed here. Network lifetime, convergence speed as well as resulting network connectivity are used as figures of merit for these two algorithms. They have been evaluated in an indoor sensor environment. The network lifetime metrics of these two local algorithms are also benchmarked against power control algorithms using global information. We show that these local algorithms outperform fixed power level assignment and that the lifetime achieved by them is usually within a factor of two of globally computed solution while being scalable.

A cognitive radio approach for usage of virtual unlicensed spectrum
While essentially all of the frequency spectrum is allocated to different applications, observations provide evidence that usage of the spectrum is actually quite limited, particularly in bands above 3 GHz. In this paper we present a Cognitive Radio approach for usage of Virtual Unlicensed Spectrum (CORVUS), a vision of a Cognitive Radio (CR) based approach that uses allocated spectrum in a opportunistic manner to create "virtual unlicensed bands" i.e. bands that are shared with the primary (often licensed) users on a non-interfering basis. Dynamic spectrum management techniques are used to adapt to immediate local spectrum availability. We define the system requirements for this approach, as well as the general architecture and basic physical and link layer functions of CORVUS.

Corvus: a cognitive radio approach for usage of virtual unlicensed spectrum
While essentially all of the frequency spectrum is allocated to different applications, observations provide evidence that usage of the spectrum is actually quite limited, particularly in bands above 3 GHz. In this paper we present a Cognitive Radio approach for usage of Virtual Unlicensed Spectrum (CORVUS), a vision of a Cognitive Radio (CR) based approach that uses allocated spectrum in a opportunistic manner to create "virtual unlicensed bands" i.e. bands that are shared with the primary (often licensed) users on a non-interfering basis. Dynamic spectrum management techniques are used to adapt to immediate local spectrum availability. We define the system requirements for this approach, as well as the general architecture and basic physical and link layer functions of CORVUS.

Measurements of a wireless link in an industrial environment using an IEEE 802.11-compliant physical layer
The design and simulation of coding schemes, medium access control (MAC), and link-layer protocols for future industrial wireless local area networks can be supported by some understanding of the statistical properties of the bit error patterns delivered by a wireless link (which is an ensemble of transmitter, channel, receiver, modems). The authors present results of bit error measurements taken with an IEEE 802.11-compliant radio modem in an industrial environment. In addition to reporting the most important results, they draw some conclusions for the design of MAC and link-layer protocols. Furthermore, they show that the popular Gilbert/Elliot model and a modified version of it are a useful tool for simulating bit errors on a wireless link, despite their simplicity and failure to match certain measured statistics.

Power-saving mechanisms in emerging standards for wireless LANs: The MAC level perspective
This article provides an overview of mechanisms used for power saving in the upcoming standards for wireless LANs: IEEE 802.11 and ETSI RES 10 HIPERLAN. Power saving on the MAC level is addressed by these standards in a quite different way. We outline the main features of the mechanisms in both standards in terms of power saving. In addition we present simulation studies of the power-saving mechanism in ad hoc configurations of IEEE 802.11 networks, which demonstrate the optimization potential and some performance trade-offs quantitatively.

Twist: a scalable and reconfigurable testbed for wireless indoor experiments with sensor networks
We present TWIST, a scalable and exible testbed architecture for indoor deployment of wireless sensor networks. The design of TWIST is based on an analysis of typical and desirable use-cases. It provides basic services like node configuration, network-wide programming, out-of-band extraction of debug data and gathering of application data, and also introduces several novel features.Firstly, TWIST supports experiments with heterogeneous node platforms. Secondly, it supports active power supply control of the nodes. This enables easy transition between USB-powered and battery-powered experiments, dynamic selection of topologies as well as controlled injection of node failures into the system. Thirdly, TWIST supports creation of both at and hierarchical sensor networks. For this we introduce a layer of "super nodes" that on one hand form a part of the testbed infrastructure but can also play a role as elements of the sensor network.The self-configuration capability, the use of hardware with standardized interfaces and open-source software makes the TWIST architecture scalable, affordable, and easily repli-cable. To demonstrate its usefulness, we present our experiences with building and using a specific realization of TWIST that spans three floors of our office building and supports over one hundred sensor nodes.

Cognitive radios for dynamic spectrum access-dynamic frequency hopping communities for efficient IEEE 802.22 operation
One of the key challenges of the emerging cognitive radio-based IEEE 802.22 wireless regional area networks (WRANs) is to address two apparently conflicting requirements: ensuring QoS satisfaction for WRAN services while providing reliable spectrum sensing for guaranteeing licensed user protection. To perform reliable sensing, in the basic operation mode on a single frequency band (non-hopping mode), one must allocate quiet times, that is, periodically interrupt data transmission that could impair the QoS of WRAN. This critical issue can be addressed by an alternative operation mode proposed in 802.22 called dynamic frequency hopping (DFH), where WRAN data transmission is performed in parallel with spectrum sensing without interruptions. DFH community, as described in this article, is a mechanism that coordinates multiple WRAN cells operating in the DFH mode, such that efficient frequency usage and reliable channel sensing are achieved. The key idea of DFH community is that neighboring WRAN cells form cooperating communities that coordinate their DFH operations

Adaptation algorithm for adaptive streaming over HTTP
Internet video makes up a significant part of the Internet traffic and its fraction is constantly growing. In order to guarantee best user experience throughout different network access technologies with dynamically varying network conditions, it is fundamental to adopt technologies enabling a proper delivery of the media content. One of such technologies is adaptive streaming. It allows to dynamically adapt the bit-rate of the stream to varying network conditions. There are various approaches to adaptive streaming. In our work, we focus on the receiver-driven approach where the media file is subdivided into segments, each of the segments is provided at multiple bit-rates, and the task of the client is to select the appropriate bit-rate for each of the segments. With this approach, the challenges are (i) to properly estimate the dynamics of the available network throughput, (ii) to control the filling level of the client buffer in order to avoid underflows resulting in playback interruptions, (iii) to maximize the quality of the stream, while avoiding unnecessary quality fluctuations, and, finally, (iv) to minimize the delay between the user's request and the start of the playback. During our work, we designed and implemented a receiver-driven adaptation algorithm for adaptive streaming that does not rely on cross-layer information or server assistance. We integrated the algorithm with a prototype implementation of a streaming client based on the MPEG DASH (Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP) standard. We evaluated the implemented prototype in real-world scenarios and found that it performes remarkably well even under challenging network conditions. Further, it exhibits stable and fair operation if a common link is shared among multiple clients.

Primary users in cellular networks: A large-scale measurement study
Most existing studies of spectrum usage have been performed by actively sensing the energy levels in specific RF bands including cellular bands. In this paper, we provide a unique, complementary analysis of cellular primary usage by analyzing a dataset collected inside a cellular network operator. One of the key aspects of our dataset is its scale - it consists of data collected over three weeks at hundreds of base stations. We dissect this data along different dimensions to characterize and model primary usage as well as understand its temporal and spatial variations. Our analysis reveals several results that are relevant if dynamic spectrum access (DSA) approaches are to be deployed for cellular frequency bands. For instance, we find that call durations show significant deviations from the often- used exponential distribution, which makes call-based modeling more complicated. We also show that a random walk process, which does not use call durations, can often be used for modeling the aggregate cell capacity. Furthermore, we highlight some applications of our results to improve secondary usage of licensed spectrum.

Primary user behavior in cellular networks and implications for dynamic spectrum access
Dynamic spectrum access approaches, which propose to opportunistically use underutilized portions of licensed wireless spectrum such as cellular bands, are increasingly being seen as a way to alleviate spectrum scarcity. However, before DSA approaches can be enabled, it is important that we understand the dynamics of spectrum usage in licensed bands. Our focus in this article is the cellular band. Using a unique dataset collected inside a cellular network operator, we analyze the usage in cellular bands and discuss the implications of our results on enabling DSA in these bands. One of the key aspects of our dataset is its scale-it consists of data collected over three weeks at hundreds of base stations. We dissect this data along different dimensions to characterize if and when spectrum is available, develop models of primary usage, and understand the implications of these results on DSA techniques such as sensing.

Performance study of access control in wireless LANs–IEEE 802.11 DFWMAC and ETSI RES 10 HIPERLAN
A real time cognitive radio testbed for physical and link layer experiments
Cognitive radios have been advanced as a technology for the opportunistic use of under-utilized spectrum. Cognitive radio is able to sense the spectrum and detect the presence of primary users. However, primary users of the spectrum are skeptical about the robustness of this sensing process and have raised concerns with regards to interference from cognitive radios. Furthermore, while a number of techniques have been advanced to aid the sensing process, none of these techniques have been verified in a practical system. To alleviate these concerns, a real time testbed is required, which can aid the comparison of these techniques and enable the measurement and evaluation of key interference and performance metrics. In this paper, we present such a testbed, which is based on the BEE2, a multi-FPGA emulation engine. The BEE2 can connect to 18 radio front-ends, which can be configured as primary or secondary users. Inherent parallelism of the FPGAs allows the simultaneous operation of multiple radios, which can communicate and exchange information via high speed low latency links

Reliable link maintenance in cognitive radio systems
Recently, secondary usage of spectrum has been considered in order to better exploit spectral resources and overcome the under-utilization of licensed spectrum. Since the licensed user still keeps primary access rights to its spectrum in such a secondary usage scenario, potential secondary users (SUs) have to vacate the spectrum in case the licensed user claims it. In order to maintain the quality of the secondary communication nevertheless, efficient mechanisms for link maintenance are needed. In this paper we present a general model for link maintenance in secondary usage scenarios. We state that the traditional way of adding redundancy to improve the communication not necessarily works in secondary usage scenarios. Furthermore we present performance results of a link maintenance approach applied to a secondary usage system based on opportunistic spectrum sharing, which verifies our assumptions

Dynamic resource allocation in OFDM systems: an overview of cross-layer optimization principles and techniques
Recently, a lot of research effort has been spent on cross-layer system design. It has been shown that cross-layer mechanisms (i.e., policies) potentially provide significant performance gains for various systems. In this article we review several aspects of cross-layer system optimization regarding wireless OFDM systems. We discuss basic optimization models and present selected heuristic approaches realizing cross-layer policies by means of dynamic resource allocation. Two specific areas are treated separately: models and dynamic approaches for single transmitter/receiver pairs (i.e., a point-to-point communication scenario) as well as models and approaches for point-to-multipoint communication scenarios (e.g., the downlink of a wireless cell). This article provides basic knowledge in order to investigate future OFDM cross-layer-optimization issues

