Minimum average correlation energy filters
The synthesis of a new category of spatial filters that produces sharp output correlation peaks with controlled peak values is considered. The sharp nature of the correlation peak is the major feature emphasized, since it facilitates target detection. Since these filters minimize the average correlation plane energy as the first step in filter synthesis, we refer to them as minimum average correlation energy filters. Experimental laboratory results from optical implementation of the filters are also presented and discussed.

Correlation pattern recognition
Pythagorean fuzzy set (PFS) is a significant soft computing tool for tackling embedded fuzziness in decision-making. Many computing methods have been studied to facilitate the application of PFS in modeling practical problems, among which the concept of correlation coefficient is very important. This article proposes some novel methods of computing correlation between PFSs via the three characteristic parameters of PFS by incorporating the ideas of Pythagorean fuzzy deviation, variance, and covariance. These novel methods evaluate the magnitude of relationship, show the potency of correlation between the PFSs, and also indicate whether the PFSs are related in either negative or positive sense. The proposed techniques are substantiated together with some theoretical results and numerically validated to be superior in terms of reliability and accuracy compared to some similar existing techniques. Decision-making processes involving pattern recognition and career placement problems are determined using the proposed techniques.

Unconstrained correlation filters
A mathematical analysis of the distortion tolerance in correlation filters is presented. A good measure for distortion performance is shown to be a generalization of the minimum average correlation energy criterion. To optimize the filter's performance, we remove the usual hard constraints on the outputs in the synthetic discriminant function formulation. The resulting filters exhibit superior distortion tolerance while retaining the attractive features of their predecessors such as the minimum average correlation energy filter and the minimum variance synthetic discriminant function filter. The proposed theory also unifies several existing approaches and examines the relationship between different formulations. The proposed filter design algorithm requires only simple statistical parameters and the inversion of diagonal matrices, which makes it attractive from a computational standpoint. Several properties of these filters are discussed with illustrative examples.

Attention guided anomaly localization in images
Optimal trade-off synthetic discriminant function filters for arbitrary devices
A new correlation-filter design methodology is presented for achieving two objectives: synthetic discriminant function filters that can be implemented on arbitrary various criteria of interest. devices and that can provide optimal trade-off among various criteria of interest.

Distance-classifier correlation filters for multiclass target recognition
We describe a correlation-based distance-classifier scheme for the recognition and the classification of multiple classes. The underlying theory uses shift-invariant filters to compute distances between the input image and ideal references under an optimum transformation. The original distance-classifier correlation filter was developed for a two-class problem. We introduce a distance-classifier correlation filter that simultaneously considers multiple classes, and we show that the earlier two-class formulation is a special case of the classifier presented. Initial results are presented to demonstrate the discrimination- and distortion-tolerance capabilities of the proposed filter.

Maximum margin correlation filter: A new approach for localization and classification
Support vector machine (SVM) classifiers are popular in many computer vision tasks. In most of them, the SVM classifier assumes that the object to be classified is centered in the query image, which might not always be valid, e.g., when locating and classifying a particular class of vehicles in a large scene. In this paper, we introduce a new classifier called Maximum Margin Correlation Filter (MMCF), which, while exhibiting the good generalization capabilities of SVM classifiers, is also capable of localizing objects of interest, thereby avoiding the need for image centering as is usually required in SVM classifiers. In other words, MMCF can simultaneously localize and classify objects of interest. We test the efficacy of the proposed classifier on three different tasks: vehicle recognition, eye localization, and face classification. We demonstrate that MMCF outperforms SVM classifiers as well as well known correlation filters.

Design and application of quadratic correlation filters for target detection
We introduce a method for designing and implementing quadratic correlation filters (QCFs) for shift-invariant target detection in imagery. The QCFs are a quadratic classifier that operates directly on the image data without feature extraction or segmentation. In this sense, the QCFs retain the main advantages of conventional linear correlation filters while offering significant improvements in other respects. Not only is more processing required to detect peaks in the outputs of multiple linear filters, but choosing a winner among them is an error prone task. On the other hand, all channels in a QCF work together to optimize the same performance metric and produce a combined output that leads to considerable simplification of the postprocessing scheme. In addition, QCFs also yield better performance than their linear counterparts for comparable throughput requirements. Two different methods for designing basis functions that optimize the QCF performance criterion are presented. An efficient architecture for implementing QCFs is discussed along with a case study of the proposed approach for detecting targets in LADAR imagery.

Biometric verification with correlation filters
Using biometrics for subject verification can significantly improve security over that of approaches based on passwords and personal identification numbers, both of which people tend to lose or forget. In biometric verification the system tries to match an input biometric (such as a fingerprint, face image, or iris image) to a stored biometric template. Thus correlation filter techniques are attractive candidates for the matching precision needed in biometric verification. In particular, advanced correlation filters, such as synthetic discriminant function filters, can offer very good matching performance in the presence of variability in these biometric images (e.g., facial expressions, illumination changes, etc.). We investigate the performance of advanced correlation filters for face, fingerprint, and iris biometric verification.

Optimality of the maximum average correlation height filter for detection of targets in noise
A statistical analysis is provided for the properties of the re- cently developed maximum average correlation height (MACH) filter (Mahalanobis et al. 1994). It is shown that the MACH filter can be inter- preted as an optimum filter for the detection of targets in additive noise. A rationale is given for using a popular peak-to-sidelobe ratio metric to characterize the output of the MACH filter. Finally, the performance of the MACH filter is compared to that of the matched spatial filter (MSF) in terms of the relation between the probabilities of correct detection and false alarm, which is represented as a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. © 1997 Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers. (S0091-3286(97)00910-0)

Evaluation of MACH and DCCF correlation filters for SAR ATR using the MSTAR public database
The MACH and DCCF correlation filter algorithms are evaluated using the publicly released MSTAR data base. These algorithms can be used as a matching engine for automatic target recognition in SAR imagery. In practice, the required filters can be synthesized using model based signature predictions. In addition, the MACH and DCCF algorithms are optimized to be robust to variations (distortions) in the target's signature. Unlike Matched Filtering or other exhaustive template based methods, the proposed approach requires very few filters. The paper describes the theory of the algorithm, key practical advantages and details of test results on the public MSTAR data base.

Object specific image reconstruction using a compressive sensing architecture for application in surveillance systems
In many surveillance applications, high resolution imaging sensors provide imagery over large areas for operators to visually determine the presence of threats. Two significant challenges are: 1) the large amount of image data can be taxing for a human operator over a long period of time (as well as for other system resources such as network bandwidth), and 2) relatively expensive optics and large focal plane arrays are needed to produce high quality images. Compressed sensing holds the promise for radically novel sensors that can perfectly reconstruct images using comparatively simple hardware and considerably fewer samples of data than required by the otherwise general Shannon sampling theorem. It has been shown by Candes, Romberg, and Tao, Donoho, and others that by measuring relatively few projections of a scene on random vectors, iterative greedy algorithms and basis pursuit techniques that minimize the L1 norm of the solution vector can perfectly reconstruct the entire image. To reduce the load on the human operator, however, it is also desirable to cue regions of the image where objects of interest may exist. Towards this end, we are interested here in selectively imaging interesting objects in a scene, without necessarily seeking perfect reconstruction of the whole image. We show that our goals are achieved by minimizing a modified L2-norm criterion when the reconstruction of only specific objects is of interest. We achieve this by introducing prior knowledge about objects in a known basis as soft constraints in the reconstruction equation. At first blush it may appear that the same could be achieved by measuring projections of the objects directly on the basis set. However, this trivial solution requires that the basis functions be changed for every object; thus, the solution is not suitable for practical applications. We show that the proposed approach takes advantage of the simplicity, elegance, and generality of the compressed sensing architecture by achieving object-specific reconstruction using random projection on simple binary masks. Most importantly, a single set of random projective measurements can be used to algorithmically reconstruct any object of interest without requiring explicit and repeated measurements on different basis sets that vary with the object of interest. Clearly, this has significant implications on system issues and practical consideration such as hardware complexity and time required for searching for objects over a large number of classes. Our assumption that some information is known about specific objects of interest is distinctly different from the original theory of compressed sensing as postulated by Candes, et al. and Donoho. The proposed method is not an alternative when the perfect reconstruction of arbitrary images is required, but nevertheless operates within the same framework by extracting information from compressive measurements. The proposed method yields a simple closed-form analytical solution that does not require iterative processing. Objects can be meaningfully sensed in considerable detail while heavily compressing the scene elsewhere. Essentially, this embeds the object detection and clutter discrimination function in the sensing and imaging process. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first application of a compressed sensing architecture that is explicitly tailored for surveillance scenarios where the ability to find specific objects is of interest.

Minimum squared error synthetic discriminant functions
A new synthetic discriminant function (SDF) design approach is presented that yields the best approximation of arbitrary output correlation shapes in the minimum squared error (MSE) sense. We term such filters as MSE-SDFs. Simulation results are presented to illustrate the advantages of MSE-SDFs. Also, we show that MSE-SDFs generalize minimum average correlation energy filters.

Optimal tradeoff circular harmonic function correlation filter methods providing controlled in-plane rotation response
Correlation methods are becoming increasingly attractive tools for image recognition and location. This renewed interest in correlation methods is spurred by the availability of high-speed image processors and the emergence of correlation filter designs that can optimize relevant figures of merit. In this paper, a new correlation filter design method is presented that allows one to optimally tradeoff among potentially conflicting correlation output performance criteria while achieving desired correlation peak value behavior in response to in-plane rotation of input images. Such controlled in-plane rotation response is useful in image analysis and pattern recognition applications where the sensor follows a pre-arranged trajectory while imaging an object. Since this new correlation filter design is based on circular harmonic function (CHF) theory, we refer to the resulting filters as optimal tradeoff circular harmonic function (OTCHF) filters. Underlying theory, OTCHF filter design method, and illustrative numerical results are presented.

Infrared target detection in cluttered environments by maximization of a target to clutter ratio (TCR) metric using a convolutional neural network
Infrared target detection is a challenging computer vision problem which involves detecting small targets in heavily cluttered conditions while maintaining a low false alarm rate. We propose a network that optimizes a “target to clutter ratio”(TCR) metric defined as the ratio of the output energies produced by the network in response to targets and clutter. A TCR-network (TCRNet) is presented in which the filters of the first convolutional layer are composed of the eigenvectors most responsive to targets or to clutter. These vectors are analytically derived via a closed form optimization of the TCR metric. The remaining convolutional layers are trained using a novel cost function also designed to optimize the TCR criterion. We evaluate the performance of the TCRNet using a public domain medium wave infrared dataset released by the US Army's Night Vision Laboratories, and compare it to the state-of-the-art detectors such as Faster regions with convolutional neural networks (R-CNN) and Yolo-v3. The TCRNet demonstrates state-of-the-art results with greater than 30% improvement in probability of detection while reducing the false alarm rate by more than a factor of two when compared to these leading methods. Experimental results are shown for both day and night time images, and ablation studies are presented which demonstrate the contribution of the first layer eigenfilters, additional convolutional layers, and the benefit of the TCR cost function.

Quadratic correlation filter design methodology for target detection and surveillance applications
A novel method is presented for optimization of quadratic correlation filters (QCFs) for shift-invariant target detection in imagery. The QCFs are quadratic classifiers that operate directly on the image data without feature extraction or segmentation. In this sense, the QCFs retain the main advantages of conventional linear correlation filters while offering significant improvements in other respects. For example, multiple correlators work in parallel to optimize jointly the QCF performance metric and produce a single combined output, which leads to considerable simplification of the postprocessing scheme. In addition, QCFs also yield better performance than their linear counterparts for comparable throughput requirements. The primary application considered is target detection in infrared imagery for surveillance applications. In the current approach, the class-separation metric is formulated as a Rayleigh quotient that is maximized by the QCF solution. It is shown that the proposed method results in considerable improvement in performance compared with a previously reported QCF design approach and many other detection techniques. The results of independent tests and evaluations at the U.S. Army's Night Vision Laboratory are also presented.

Recent results of medium wave infrared compressive sensing
The application of compressive sensing (CS) for imaging has been extensively investigated and the underlying mathematical principles are well understood. The theory of CS is motivated by the sparse nature of real-world signals and images, and provides a framework in which high-resolution information can be recovered from low-resolution measurements. This, in turn, enables hardware concepts that require much fewer detectors than a conventional sensor. For infrared imagers there is a significant potential impact on the cost and footprint of the sensor. When smaller focal plane arrays (FPAs) to obtain large images are allowed, large formats FPAs are unnecessary. From a hardware standpoint, this benefit is independent of the actual level of compression and effective data rate reduction, which depend on the choice of codes and information recovery algorithm. Toward this end, we used a CS testbed for mid-wave infrared (MWIR) to experimentally show that information at high spatial resolution can be successfully recovered from measurements made with a small FPA. We describe the highly parallel and scalable CS architecture of the testbed, and its implementation using a reflective spatial light modulator and a focal plane array with variable pixel sizes. We also discuss the impact of real-world devices and the effect of sensor calibration that must be addressed in practice. Finally, we present preliminary results of image reconstruction, which demonstrate the testbed operation. These results experimentally confirm that high-resolution spatial information (for tasks such as imaging and target detection) can be successfully recovered from low-resolution measurements. We also discuss the potential system-level benefits of CS for infrared imaging, and some of the challenges that must be addressed in future infrared CS imagers designs.

Improving the false alarm capabilities of the maximum average correlation height correlation filter
We show that the maximum average correlation height (MACH) correlation filter overemphasizes the importance of the average training image leading to poor discrimination of the desired class images from clutter images. To overcome this, two new metrics termed the all image correlation height (AICH) and the modified average similarity measure (MASM) are introduced and optimized in a new correlation de- sign. The resulting filter exhibits improved clutter rejection performance while retaining the attractive distortion tolerance feature of the MACH filter. Simulation results based on a simulated synthetic aperture radar (SAR) image database are presented to illustrate the new filter's proper- ties. © 2000 Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers. (S0091-3286(00)01805-5)

Performance evaluation of quadratic correlation filters for target detection and discrimination in infrared imagery
The detection and discrimination of targets in infrared imagery has been a challenging problem due to the variability of the target and clutter (background) signatures. In this paper we discuss the application of a novel quadratic filtering method using missile seeker infrared closing sequences. Image filtering techniques are well suited for target detection applications since they avoid the disadvantages of typical pixel-based detection schemes (such as segmentation and edge extraction). Another advantage is that the throughput complexity of the filtering approach, in the detection process, also does not vary with scene content. The performance of the proposed approach is assessed on several data sets, and the results are compared with that of previous linear filtering techniques. Since we can obtain the signature of some of the clutter “in-the-field” or during operation, we examine the impact of updating the filters to adapt to the clutter.

Multi-class SAR ATR using shift-invariant correlation filters
DONE