A survey of data augmentation approaches for NLP
Data augmentation has recently seen increased interest in NLP due to more work in low-resource domains, new tasks, and the popularity of large-scale neural networks that require large amounts of training data. Despite this recent upsurge, this area is still relatively underexplored, perhaps due to the challenges posed by the discrete nature of language data. In this paper, we present a comprehensive and unifying survey of data augmentation for NLP by summarizing the literature in a structured manner. We first introduce and motivate data augmentation for NLP, and then discuss major methodologically representative approaches. Next, we highlight techniques that are used for popular NLP applications and tasks. We conclude by outlining current challenges and directions for future research. Overall, our paper aims to clarify the landscape of existing literature in data augmentation for NLP and motivate additional work in this area. We also present a GitHub repository with a paper list that will be continuously updated at https://github.com/styfeng/DataAug4NLP

Guesswhat?! visual object discovery through multi-modal dialogue
We introduce GuessWhat?!, a two-player guessing game as a testbed for research on the interplay of computer vision and dialogue systems. The goal of the game is to locate an unknown object in a rich image scene by asking a sequence of questions. Higher-level image understanding, like spatial reasoning and language grounding, is required to solve the proposed task. Our key contribution is the collection of a large-scale dataset consisting of 150K human-played games with a total of 800K visual question-answer pairs on 66K images. We explain our design decisions in collecting the dataset and introduce the oracle and questioner tasks that are associated with the two players of the game. We prototyped deep learning models to establish initial baselines of the introduced tasks.

The hanabi challenge: A new frontier for ai research
An autoencoder approach to learning bilingual word representations
Cross-language learning allows one to use training data from one language to build models for a different language. Many approaches to bilingual learning require that we have word-level alignment of sentences from parallel corpora. In this work we explore the use of autoencoder-based methods for cross-language learning of vectorial word representations that are coherent between two languages, while not relying on word-level alignments. We show that by simply learning to reconstruct the bag-of-words representations of aligned sentences, within and between languages, we can in fact learn high-quality representations and do without word alignments. We empirically investigate the success of our approach on the problem of cross-language text classification, where a classifier trained on a given language (e.g., English) must learn to generalize to a different language (e.g., German). In experiments on 3 language pairs, we show that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance, outperforming a method exploiting word alignments and a strong machine translation baseline.

A deep reinforcement learning chatbot
We present MILABOT: a deep reinforcement learning chatbot developed by the Montreal Institute for Learning Algorithms (MILA) for the Amazon Alexa Prize competition. MILABOT is capable of conversing with humans on popular small talk topics through both speech and text. The system consists of an ensemble of natural language generation and retrieval models, including template-based models, bag-of-words models, sequence-to-sequence neural network and latent variable neural network models. By applying reinforcement learning to crowdsourced data and real-world user interactions, the system has been trained to select an appropriate response from the models in its ensemble. The system has been evaluated through A/B testing with real-world users, where it performed significantly better than many competing systems. Due to its machine learning architecture, the system is likely to improve with additional data.

Generating factoid questions with recurrent neural networks: The 30m factoid question-answer corpus
Over the past decade, large-scale supervised learning corpora have enabled machine learning researchers to make substantial advances. However, to this date, there are no large-scale question-answer corpora available. In this paper we present the 30M Factoid Question-Answer Corpus, an enormous question answer pair corpus produced by applying a novel neural network architecture on the knowledge base Freebase to transduce facts into natural language questions. The produced question answer pairs are evaluated both by human evaluators and using automatic evaluation metrics, including well-established machine translation and sentence similarity metrics. Across all evaluation criteria the question-generation model outperforms the competing template-based baseline. Furthermore, when presented to human evaluators, the generated questions appear comparable in quality to real human-generated questions.

Complex sequential question answering: Towards learning to converse over linked question answer pairs with a knowledge graph

 
 While conversing with chatbots, humans typically tend to ask many questions, a significant portion of which can be answered by referring to large-scale knowledge graphs (KG). While Question Answering (QA) and dialog systems have been studied independently, there is a need to study them closely to evaluate such real-world scenarios faced by bots involving both these tasks. Towards this end, we introduce the task of Complex Sequential QA which combines the two tasks of (i) answering factual questions through complex inferencing over a realistic-sized KG of millions of entities, and (ii) learning to converse through a series of coherently linked QA pairs. Through a labor intensive semi-automatic process, involving in-house and crowdsourced workers, we created a dataset containing around 200K dialogs with a total of 1.6M turns. Further, unlike existing large scale QA datasets which contain simple questions that can be answered from a single tuple, the questions in our dialogs require a larger subgraph of the KG. Specifically, our dataset has questions which require logical, quantitative, and comparative reasoning as well as their combinations. This calls for models which can: (i) parse complex natural language questions, (ii) use conversation context to resolve coreferences and ellipsis in utterances, (iii) ask for clarifications for ambiguous queries, and finally (iv) retrieve relevant subgraphs of the KG to answer such questions. However, our experiments with a combination of state of the art dialog and QA models show that they clearly do not achieve the above objectives and are inadequate for dealing with such complex real world settings. We believe that this new dataset coupled with the limitations of existing models as reported in this paper should encourage further research in Complex Sequential QA.
 


Correlational neural networks
Common representation learning (CRL), wherein different descriptions (or views) of the data are embedded in a common subspace, has been receiving a lot of attention recently. Two popular paradigms here are canonical correlation analysis (CCA)–based approaches and autoencoder (AE)–based approaches. CCA-based approaches learn a joint representation by maximizing correlation of the views when projected to the common subspace. AE-based methods learn a common representation by minimizing the error of reconstructing the two views. Each of these approaches has its own advantages and disadvantages. For example, while CCA-based approaches outperform AE-based approaches for the task of transfer learning, they are not as scalable as the latter. In this work, we propose an AE-based approach, correlational neural network (CorrNet), that explicitly maximizes correlation among the views when projected to the common subspace. Through a series of experiments, we demonstrate that the proposed CorrNet is better than AE and CCA with respect to its ability to learn correlated common representations. We employ CorrNet for several cross-language tasks and show that the representations learned using it perform better than the ones learned using other state-of-the-art approaches.

Post-hoc interpretability for neural nlp: A survey
Neural networks for NLP are becoming increasingly complex and widespread, and there is a growing concern if these models are responsible to use. Explaining models helps to address the safety and ethical concerns and is essential for accountability. Interpretability serves to provide these explanations in terms that are understandable to humans. Additionally, post-hoc methods provide explanations after a model is learned and are generally model-agnostic. This survey provides a categorization of how recent post-hoc interpretability methods communicate explanations to humans, it discusses each method in-depth, and how they are validated, as the latter is often a common concern.

Learning to navigate the synthetically accessible chemical space using reinforcement learning
Over the last decade, there has been significant progress in the field of machine learning for de novo drug design, particularly in deep generative models. However, current generative approaches exhibit a significant challenge as they do not ensure that the proposed molecular structures can be feasibly synthesized nor do they provide the synthesis routes of the proposed small molecules, thereby seriously limiting their practical applicability. In this work, we propose a novel forward synthesis framework powered by reinforcement learning (RL) for de novo drug design, Policy Gradient for Forward Synthesis (PGFS), that addresses this challenge by embedding the concept of synthetic accessibility directly into the de novo drug design system. In this setup, the agent learns to navigate through the immense synthetically accessible chemical space by subjecting commercially available small molecule building blocks to valid chemical reactions at every time step of the iterative virtual multi-step synthesis process. The proposed environment for drug discovery provides a highly challenging test-bed for RL algorithms owing to the large state space and high-dimensional continuous action space with hierarchical actions. PGFS achieves state-of-the-art performance in generating structures with high QED and penalized clogP. Moreover, we validate PGFS in an in-silico proof-of-concept associated with three HIV targets. Finally, we describe how the end-to-end training conceptualized in this study represents an important paradigm in radically expanding the synthesizable chemical space and automating the drug discovery process.

Do neural dialog systems use the conversation history effectively? an empirical study
Neural generative models have been become increasingly popular when building conversational agents. They offer flexibility, can be easily adapted to new domains, and require minimal domain engineering. A common criticism of these systems is that they seldom understand or use the available dialog history effectively. In this paper, we take an empirical approach to understanding how these models use the available dialog history by studying the sensitivity of the models to artificially introduced unnatural changes or perturbations to their context at test time. We experiment with 10 different types of perturbations on 4 multi-turn dialog datasets and find that commonly used neural dialog architectures like recurrent and transformer-based seq2seq models are rarely sensitive to most perturbations such as missing or reordering utterances, shuffling words, etc. Also, by open-sourcing our code, we believe that it will serve as a useful diagnostic tool for evaluating dialog systems in the future.

Dynamic neural turing machine with continuous and discrete addressing schemes
We extend the neural Turing machine (NTM) model into a dynamic neural Turing machine (D-NTM) by introducing trainable address vectors. This addressing scheme maintains for each memory cell two separate vectors, content and address vectors. This allows the D-NTM to learn a wide variety of location-based addressing strategies, including both linear and nonlinear ones. We implement the D-NTM with both continuous and discrete read and write mechanisms. We investigate the mechanisms and effects of learning to read and write into a memory through experiments on Facebook bAbI tasks using both a feedforward and GRU controller. We provide extensive analysis of our model and compare different variations of neural Turing machines on this task. We show that our model outperforms long short-term memory and NTM variants. We provide further experimental results on the sequential MNIST, Stanford Natural Language Inference, associative recall, and copy tasks.

Toward training recurrent neural networks for lifelong learning
Catastrophic forgetting and capacity saturation are the central challenges of any parametric lifelong learning system. In this work, we study these challenges in the context of sequential supervised learning with an emphasis on recurrent neural networks. To evaluate the models in the lifelong learning setting, we propose a curriculum-based, simple, and intuitive benchmark where the models are trained on tasks with increasing levels of difficulty. To measure the impact of catastrophic forgetting, the model is tested on all the previous tasks as it completes any task. As a step toward developing true lifelong learning systems, we unify gradient episodic memory (a catastrophic forgetting alleviation approach) and Net2Net (a capacity expansion approach). Both models are proposed in the context of feedforward networks, and we evaluate the feasibility of using them for recurrent networks. Evaluation on the proposed benchmark shows that the unified model is more suitable than the constituent models for lifelong learning setting.

Hierarchical memory networks
Graph-level anomaly detection aims to identify abnormal graphs that exhibit deviant structures and node attributes compared to the majority in a graph set. One primary challenge is to learn normal patterns manifested in both fine-grained and holistic views of graphs for identifying graphs that are abnormal in part or in whole. To tackle this challenge, we propose a novel approach called Hierarchical Memory Networks (HimNet), which learns hierarchical memory modules -- node and graph memory modules -- via a graph autoencoder network architecture. The node-level memory module is trained to model fine-grained, internal graph interactions among nodes for detecting locally abnormal graphs, while the graph-level memory module is dedicated to the learning of holistic normal patterns for detecting globally abnormal graphs. The two modules are jointly optimized to detect both locally- and globally-anomalous graphs. Extensive empirical results on 16 real-world graph datasets from various domains show that i) HimNet significantly outperforms the state-of-art methods and ii) it is robust to anomaly contamination. Codes are available at: https://github.com/Niuchx/HimNet.

An empirical investigation of the role of pre-training in lifelong learning
The lifelong learning paradigm in machine learning is an attractive alternative to the more prominent isolated learning scheme not only due to its resemblance to biological learning but also its potential to reduce energy waste by obviating excessive model re-training. A key challenge to this paradigm is the phenomenon of catastrophic forgetting. With the increasing popularity and success of pre-trained models in machine learning, we pose the question: What role does pre-training play in lifelong learning, specifically with respect to catastrophic forgetting? We investigate existing methods in the context of large, pre-trained models and evaluate their performance on a variety of text and image classification tasks, including a large-scale study using a novel data set of 15 diverse NLP tasks. Across all settings, we observe that generic pre-training implicitly alleviates the effects of catastrophic forgetting when learning multiple tasks sequentially compared to randomly initialized models. We then further investigate why pre-training alleviates forgetting in this setting. We study this phenomenon by analyzing the loss landscape, finding that pre-trained weights appear to ease forgetting by leading to wider minima. Based on this insight, we propose jointly optimizing for current task loss and loss basin sharpness to explicitly encourage wider basins during sequential fine-tuning. We show that this optimization approach outperforms several state-of-the-art task-sequential continual learning algorithms across multiple settings, occasionally even without retaining a memory that scales in size with the number of tasks.

Memory augmented neural networks with wormhole connections
Recent empirical results on long-term dependency tasks have shown that neural networks augmented with an external memory can learn the long-term dependency tasks more easily and achieve better generalization than vanilla recurrent neural networks (RNN). We suggest that memory augmented neural networks can reduce the effects of vanishing gradients by creating shortcut (or wormhole) connections. Based on this observation, we propose a novel memory augmented neural network model called TARDIS (Temporal Automatic Relation Discovery in Sequences). The controller of TARDIS can store a selective set of embeddings of its own previous hidden states into an external memory and revisit them as and when needed. For TARDIS, memory acts as a storage for wormhole connections to the past to propagate the gradients more effectively and it helps to learn the temporal dependencies. The memory structure of TARDIS has similarities to both Neural Turing Machines (NTM) and Dynamic Neural Turing Machines (D-NTM), but both read and write operations of TARDIS are simpler and more efficient. We use discrete addressing for read/write operations which helps to substantially to reduce the vanishing gradient problem with very long sequences. Read and write operations in TARDIS are tied with a heuristic once the memory becomes full, and this makes the learning problem simpler when compared to NTM or D-NTM type of architectures. We provide a detailed analysis on the gradient propagation in general for MANNs. We evaluate our models on different long-term dependency tasks and report competitive results in all of them.

Towards non-saturating recurrent units for modelling long-term dependencies
Modelling long-term dependencies is a challenge for recurrent neural networks. This is primarily due to the fact that gradients vanish during training, as the sequence length increases. Gradients can be attenuated by transition operators and are attenuated or dropped by activation functions. Canonical architectures like LSTM alleviate this issue by skipping information through a memory mechanism. We propose a new recurrent architecture (Non-saturating Recurrent Unit; NRU) that relies on a memory mechanism but forgoes both saturating activation functions and saturating gates, in order to further alleviate vanishing gradients. In a series of synthetic and real world tasks, we demonstrate that the proposed model is the only model that performs among the top 2 models across all tasks with and without long-term dependencies, when compared against a range of other architectures.

Bridge correlational neural networks for multilingual multimodal representation learning
Recently there has been a lot of interest in learning common representations for multiple views of data. Typically, such common representations are learned using a parallel corpus between the two views (say, 1M images and their English captions). In this work, we address a real-world scenario where no direct parallel data is available between two views of interest (say, $V_1$ and $V_2$) but parallel data is available between each of these views and a pivot view ($V_3$). We propose a model for learning a common representation for $V_1$, $V_2$ and $V_3$ using only the parallel data available between $V_1V_3$ and $V_2V_3$. The proposed model is generic and even works when there are $n$ views of interest and only one pivot view which acts as a bridge between them. There are two specific downstream applications that we focus on (i) transfer learning between languages $L_1$,$L_2$,...,$L_n$ using a pivot language $L$ and (ii) cross modal access between images and a language $L_1$ using a pivot language $L_2$. Our model achieves state-of-the-art performance in multilingual document classification on the publicly available multilingual TED corpus and promising results in multilingual multimodal retrieval on a new dataset created and released as a part of this work.

Patchup: A feature-space block-level regularization technique for convolutional neural networks
Large capacity deep learning models are often prone to a high generalization gap when trained with a limited amount of labeled training data. A recent class of methods to address this problem uses various ways to construct a new training sample by mixing a pair (or more) of training samples. We propose PatchUp, a hidden state block-level regularization technique for Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), that is applied on selected contiguous blocks of feature maps from a random pair of samples. Our approach improves the robustness of CNN models against the manifold intrusion problem that may occur in other state-of-the-art mixing approaches. Moreover, since we are mixing the contiguous block of features in the hidden space, which has more dimensions than the input space, we obtain more diverse samples for training towards different dimensions. Our experiments on CIFAR10/100, SVHN, Tiny-ImageNet, and ImageNet using ResNet architectures including PreActResnet18/34, WRN-28-10, ResNet101/152 models show that PatchUp improves upon, or equals, the performance of current state-of-the-art regularizers for CNNs. We also show that PatchUp can provide a better generalization to deformed samples and is more robust against adversarial attacks.

Clustering is efficient for approximate maximum inner product search
Efficient Maximum Inner Product Search (MIPS) is an important task that has a wide applicability in recommendation systems and classification with a large number of classes. Solutions based on locality-sensitive hashing (LSH) as well as tree-based solutions have been investigated in the recent literature, to perform approximate MIPS in sublinear time. In this paper, we compare these to another extremely simple approach for solving approximate MIPS, based on variants of the k-means clustering algorithm. Specifically, we propose to train a spherical k-means, after having reduced the MIPS problem to a Maximum Cosine Similarity Search (MCSS). Experiments on two standard recommendation system benchmarks as well as on large vocabulary word embeddings, show that this simple approach yields much higher speedups, for the same retrieval precision, than current state-of-the-art hashing-based and tree-based methods. This simple method also yields more robust retrievals when the query is corrupted by noise.

DONE