Independent component analysis: algorithms and applications
Independent component analysis
Fast and robust fixed-point algorithms for independent component analysis
Independent component analysis (ICA) is a statistical method for transforming an observed multidimensional random vector into components that are statistically as independent from each other as possible. In this paper, we use a combination of two different approaches for linear ICA: Comon's information-theoretic approach and the projection pursuit approach. Using maximum entropy approximations of differential entropy, we introduce a family of new contrast (objective) functions for ICA. These contrast functions enable both the estimation of the whole decomposition by minimizing mutual information, and estimation of individual independent components as projection pursuit directions. The statistical properties of the estimators based on such contrast functions are analyzed under the assumption of the linear mixture model, and it is shown how to choose contrast functions that are robust and/or of minimum variance. Finally, we introduce simple fixed-point algorithms for practical optimization of the contrast functions. These algorithms optimize the contrast functions very fast and reliably.

A fast fixed-point algorithm for independent component analysis
An apparatus for hydrolytic degradation of plastics in which plastic material is deposited into a tubular housing via a feed hopper. An elongated screw shaft has a first section in the form of a high pitch screw thread disposed below the feed hopper to receive and advance the material to a second section. The second section of the screw shaft is in the form of a lower pitch thread for compressing the plastic material and transferring it to a longer, third section in the form of kneading discs, from which material passes through an outlet nozzle section to a cyclone separator where trapped gases and liquid may be withdrawn. The tubular housing is vented upstream of the feed hopper and a water inlet pipe is disposed adjacent to the second section of the screw shaft, downstream of the feed hopper. The outlet nozzle section is provided with pressure measuring and regulating means and a liquid level measuring and regulating device.

Noise-contrastive estimation: A new estimation principle for unnormalized statistical models
We present a new estimation principle for parameterized statistical models. The idea is to perform nonlinear logistic regression to discriminate between the observed data and some artificially generated noise, using the model log-density function in the regression nonlinearity. We show that this leads to a consistent (convergent) estimator of the parameters, and analyze the asymptotic variance. In particular, the method is shown to directly work for unnormalized models, i.e. models where the density function does not integrate to one. The normalization constant can be estimated just like any other parameter. For a tractable ICA model, we compare the method with other estimation methods that can be used to learn unnormalized models, including score matching, contrastive divergence, and maximum-likelihood where the normalization constant is estimated with importance sampling. Simulations show that noise-contrastive estimation offers the best trade-off between computational and statistical efficiency. The method is then applied to the modeling of natural images: We show that the method can successfully estimate a large-scale two-layer model and a Markov random field.

Survey on independent component analysis
A common problem encountered in such disciplines as statistics, data analysis, signal processing, and neural network research, is nding a suitable representation of multivariate data. For computational and conceptual simplicity, such a representation is often sought as a linear transformation of the original data. Well-known linear transformation methods include, for example, principal component analysis, factor analysis, and projection pursuit. A recently developed linear transformation method is independent component analysis (ICA), in which the desired representation is the one that minimizes the statistical dependence of the components of the representation. Such a representation seems to capture the essential structure of the data in many applications. In this paper, we survey the existing theory and methods for ICA.

A linear non-Gaussian acyclic model for causal discovery.
In recent years, several methods have been proposed for the discovery of causal structure from non-experimental data. Such methods make various assumptions on the data generating process to facilitate its identification from purely observational data. Continuing this line of research, we show how to discover the complete causal structure of continuous-valued data, under the assumptions that (a) the data generating process is linear, (b) there are no unobserved confounders, and (c) disturbance variables have non-Gaussian distributions of non-zero variances. The solution relies on the use of the statistical method known as independent component analysis, and does not require any pre-specified time-ordering of the variables. We provide a complete Matlab package for performing this LiNGAM analysis (short for Linear Non-Gaussian Acyclic Model), and demonstrate the effectiveness of the method using artificially generated data and real-world data.

Estimation of non-normalized statistical models by score matching.
One often wants to estimate statistical models where the probability density function is known only up to a multiplicative normalization constant. Typically, one then has to resort to Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods, or approximations of the normalization constant. Here, we propose that such models can be estimated by minimizing the expected squared distance between the gradient of the log-density given by the model and the gradient of the log-density of the observed data. While the estimation of the gradient of log-density function is, in principle, a very difficult non-parametric problem, we prove a surprising result that gives a simple formula for this objective function. The density function of the observed data does not appear in this formula, which simplifies to a sample average of a sum of some derivatives of the log-density given by the model. The validity of the method is demonstrated on multivariate Gaussian and independent component analysis models, and by estimating an overcomplete filter set for natural image data.

Validating the independent components of neuroimaging time series via clustering and visualization
A fast fixed-point algorithm for independent component analysis of complex valued signals
Separation of complex valued signals is a frequently arising problem in signal processing. For example, separation of convolutively mixed source signals involves computations on complex valued signals. In this article, it is assumed that the original, complex valued source signals are mutually statistically independent, and the problem is solved by the independent component analysis (ICA) model. ICA is a statistical method for transforming an observed multidimensional random vector into components that are mutually as independent as possible. In this article, a fast fixed-point type algorithm that is capable of separating complex valued, linearly mixed source signals is presented and its computational efficiency is shown by simulations. Also, the local consistency of the estimator given by the algorithm is proved.

Natural Image Statistics: A probabilistic approach to early computational vision
Noise-contrastive estimation of unnormalized statistical models, with applications to natural image statistics.
We consider the task of estimating, from observed data, a probabilistic model that is parameterized by a finite number of parameters. In particular, we are considering the situation where the model probability density function is unnormalized. That is, the model is only specified up to the partition function. The partition function normalizes a model so that it integrates to one for any choice of the parameters. However, it is often impossible to obtain it in closed form. Gibbs distributions, Markov and multi-layer networks are examples of models where analytical normalization is often impossible. Maximum likelihood estimation can then not be used without resorting to numerical approximations which are often computationally expensive. We propose here a new objective function for the estimation of both normalized and unnormalized models. The basic idea is to perform nonlinear logistic regression to discriminate between the observed data and some artificially generated noise. With this approach, the normalizing partition function can be estimated like any other parameter. We prove that the new estimation method leads to a consistent (convergent) estimator of the parameters. For large noise sample sizes, the new estimator is furthermore shown to behave like the maximum likelihood estimator. In the estimation of unnormalized models, there is a trade-off between statistical and computational performance. We show that the new method strikes a competitive trade-off in comparison to other estimation methods for unnormalized models. As an application to real data, we estimate novel two-layer models of natural image statistics with spline nonlinearities.

Nonlinear independent component analysis: Existence and uniqueness results
Emergence of phase-and shift-invariant features by decomposition of natural images into independent feature subspaces
Olshausen and Field (1996) applied the principle of independence maximization by sparse coding to extract features from natural images. This leads to the emergence of oriented linear filters that have simultaneous localization in space and in frequency, thus resembling Gabor functions and simple cell receptive fields. In this article, we show that the same principle of independence maximization can explain the emergence of phase- and shift-invariant features, similar to those found in complex cells. This new kind of emergence is obtained by maximizing the independence between norms of projections on linear subspaces (instead of the independence of simple linear filter outputs). The norms of the projections on such independent feature subspaces then indicate the values of invariant features.

New Approximations of Differential Entropy for Independent Component Analysis and projection pursuit
We derive a first-order approximation of the density of maximum entropy for a continuous 1-D random variable, given a number of simple constraints. This results in a density expansion which is somewhat similar to the classical polynomial density expansions by Gram-Charlier and Edgeworth. Using this approximation of density, an approximation of 1-D differential entropy is derived. The approximation of entropy is both more exact and more robust against outliers than the classical approximation based on the polynomial density expansions, without being computationally more expensive. The approximation has applications, for example, in independent component analysis and projection pursuit.

The fixed-point algorithm and maximum likelihood estimation for independent component analysis
Topographic independent component analysis
Sparse code shrinkage: Denoising by nonlinear maximum likelihood estimation
Sparse coding is a method for finding a representation of data in which each of the components of the representation is only rarely significantly active. Such a representation is closely related to redundancy reduction and independent component analysis, and has some neurophysiological plausibility. In this paper, we show how sparse coding can be used for denoising. Using maximum likelihood estimation of nongaussian variables corrupted by gaussian noise, we show how to apply a shrinkage nonlinearity on the components of sparse coding so as to reduce noise. Furthermore, we show how to choose the optimal sparse coding basis for denoising. Our method is closely related to the method of wavelet shrinkage, but has the important benefit over wavelet methods that both the features and the shrinkage parameters are estimated directly from the data.

On the identifiability of the post-nonlinear causal model
By taking into account the nonlinear effect of the cause, the inner noise effect, and the measurement distortion effect in the observed variables, the post-nonlinear (PNL) causal model has demonstrated its excellent performance in distinguishing the cause from effect. However, its identifiability has not been properly addressed, and how to apply it in the case of more than two variables is also a problem. In this paper, we conduct a systematic investigation on its identifiability in the two-variable case. We show that this model is identifiable in most cases; by enumerating all possible situations in which the model is not identifiable, we provide sufficient conditions for its identifiability. Simulations are given to support the theoretical results. Moreover, in the case of more than two variables, we show that the whole causal structure can be found by applying the PNL causal model to each structure in the Markov equivalent class and testing if the disturbance is independent of the direct causes for each variable. In this way the exhaustive search over all possible causal structures is avoided.

DirectLiNGAM: A direct method for learning a linear non-Gaussian structural equation model
Structural equation models and Bayesian networks have been widely used to analyze causal relations between continuous variables. In such frameworks, linear acyclic models are typically used to model the data-generating process of variables. Recently, it was shown that use of non-Gaussianity identifies the full structure of a linear acyclic model, that is, a causal ordering of variables and their connection strengths, without using any prior knowledge on the network structure, which is not the case with conventional methods. However, existing estimation methods are based on iterative search algorithms and may not converge to a correct solution in a finite number of steps. In this paper, we propose a new direct method to estimate a causal ordering and connection strengths based on non-Gaussianity. In contrast to the previous methods, our algorithm requires no algorithmic parameters and is guaranteed to converge to the right solution within a small fixed number of steps if the data strictly follows the model, that is, if all the model assumptions are met and the sample size is infinite.

DONE