Cyber security challenges in Smart Cities: Safety, security and privacy
An approach to multimodal biomedical image registration utilizing particle swarm optimization
Biomedical image registration, or geometric alignment of two-dimensional and/or three-dimensional (3D) image data, is becoming increasingly important in diagnosis, treatment planning, functional studies, computer-guided therapies, and in biomedical research. Registration based on intensity values usually requires optimization of some similarity metric between the images. Local optimization techniques frequently fail because functions of these metrics with respect to transformation parameters are generally nonconvex and irregular and, therefore, global methods are often required. In this paper, a new evolutionary approach, particle swarm optimization, is adapted for single-slice 3D-to-3D biomedical image registration. A new hybrid particle swarm technique is proposed that incorporates initial user guidance. Multimodal registrations with initial orientations far from the ground truth were performed on three volumes from different modalities. Results of optimizing the normalized mutual information similarity metric were compared with various evolutionary strategies. The hybrid particle swarm technique produced more accurate registrations than the evolutionary strategies in many cases, with comparable convergence. These results demonstrate that particle swarm approaches, along with evolutionary techniques and local methods, are useful in image registration, and emphasize the need for hybrid approaches for difficult registration problems.

IoT in smart cities: A survey of technologies, practices and challenges
Internet of Things (IoT) is a system that integrates different devices and technologies, removing the necessity of human intervention. This enables the capacity of having smart (or smarter) cities around the world. By hosting different technologies and allowing interactions between them, the internet of things has spearheaded the development of smart city systems for sustainable living, increased comfort and productivity for citizens. The IoT for Smart Cities has many different domains and draws upon various underlying systems for its operation. In this paper, we provide a holistic coverage of the Internet of Things in Smart Cities. We start by discussing the fundamental components that make up the IoT based Smart City landscape followed by the technologies that enable these domains to exist in terms of architectures utilized, networking technologies used as well as the Artificial Algorithms deployed in IoT based Smart City systems. This is then followed up by a review of the most prevalent practices and applications in various Smart City domains. Lastly, the challenges that deployment of IoT systems for smart cities encounter along with mitigation measures.

Deep Learning Techniques for Speech Emotion Recognition, from Databases to Models
The advancements in neural networks and the on-demand need for accurate and near real-time Speech Emotion Recognition (SER) in human–computer interactions make it mandatory to compare available methods and databases in SER to achieve feasible solutions and a firmer understanding of this open-ended problem. The current study reviews deep learning approaches for SER with available datasets, followed by conventional machine learning techniques for speech emotion recognition. Ultimately, we present a multi-aspect comparison between practical neural network approaches in speech emotion recognition. The goal of this study is to provide a survey of the field of discrete speech emotion recognition.

A concentric morphology model for the detection of masses in mammography
We propose a technique for the automated detection of malignant masses in screening mammography. The technique is based on the presence of concentric layers surrounding a focal area with suspicious morphological characteristics and low relative incidence in the breast region. Mammographic locations with high concentration of concentric layers with progressively lower average intensity are considered suspicious deviations from normal parenchyma. The multiple concentric layers (MCLs) technique was trained and tested using the craniocaudal views of 270 mammographic cases with biopsy proven malignant masses from the digital database of screening mammography. One-half of the available cases were used for optimizing the parameters of the detection algorithm. The remaining cases were used for testing. During testing, malignant masses were detected with 92%, 88%, and 81% sensitivity at 5.4, 2.4, and 0.6 false positive marks per image. Testing on 82 normal screening mammograms showed a false positive rate of 5.0, 1.7, and 0.2 marks per image at the previously reported operating points. Furthermore, additional evaluation on 135 benign cases produced a significantly lower detection rate for benign masses (61.6%, 58.3%, and 43.7% at 5.1, 2.8, and 1.2 false positives per image, respectively). Overall, MCL is a promising computer-assisted detection strategy for screening mammograms to identify malignant masses while maintaining the detection rate of benign masses considerably lower.

A swarm-based fuzzy logic control mobile sensor network for hazardous contaminants localization
We describe a swarm-based fuzzy logic control (FLC) mobile sensor network approach for collaboratively locating the hazardous contaminants in an unknown large-scale area. The mobile sensor network is composed of a collection of distributed nodes (robots), each of which has limited sensing, intelligence and communication capabilities. An ad-hoc wireless network is established among all nodes, and each node considers other nodes as extended sensors. By gathering other nodes' locations and measurement data, each node's FLC can independently determine its next optimal deployment location. Simultaneously, by applying the three properties of the swarm behavior: separation, cohesion and alignment, the approach can ensure the sensor network attains wide regional coverage and dynamically stable connectivity. The simulation presented in this paper shows the swarm-based FLC mobile sensor network can achieve better performance and have higher fault tolerance in the event of partial node failures and sensor measurement errors.

Deep learning role in early diagnosis of prostate cancer
The objective of this work is to develop a computer-aided diagnostic system for early diagnosis of prostate cancer. The presented system integrates both clinical biomarkers (prostate-specific antigen) and extracted features from diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging collected at multiple b values. The presented system performs 3 major processing steps. First, prostate delineation using a hybrid approach that combines a level-set model with nonnegative matrix factorization. Second, estimation and normalization of diffusion parameters, which are the apparent diffusion coefficients of the delineated prostate volumes at different b values followed by refinement of those apparent diffusion coefficients using a generalized Gaussian Markov random field model. Then, construction of the cumulative distribution functions of the processed apparent diffusion coefficients at multiple b values. In parallel, a K-nearest neighbor classifier is employed to transform the prostate-specific antigen results into diagnostic probabilities. Finally, those prostate-specific antigen–based probabilities are integrated with the initial diagnostic probabilities obtained using stacked nonnegativity constraint sparse autoencoders that employ apparent diffusion coefficient–cumulative distribution functions for better diagnostic accuracy. Experiments conducted on 18 diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging data sets achieved 94.4% diagnosis accuracy (sensitivity = 88.9% and specificity = 100%), which indicate the promising results of the presented computer-aided diagnostic system.

Ensemble deep learning models for heart disease classification: A case study from Mexico
Heart diseases are highly ranked among the leading causes of mortality in the world. They have various types including vascular, ischemic, and hypertensive heart disease. A large number of medical features are reported for patients in the Electronic Health Records (EHR) that allow physicians to diagnose and monitor heart disease. We collected a dataset from Medica Norte Hospital in Mexico that includes 800 records and 141 indicators such as age, weight, glucose, blood pressure rate, and clinical symptoms. Distribution of the collected records is very unbalanced on the different types of heart disease, where 17% of records have hypertensive heart disease, 16% of records have ischemic heart disease, 7% of records have mixed heart disease, and 8% of records have valvular heart disease. Herein, we propose an ensemble-learning framework of different neural network models, and a method of aggregating random under-sampling. To improve the performance of the classification algorithms, we implement a data preprocessing step with features selection. Experiments were conducted with unidirectional and bidirectional neural network models and results showed that an ensemble classifier with a BiLSTM or BiGRU model with a CNN model had the best classification performance with accuracy and F1-score between 91% and 96% for the different types of heart disease. These results are competitive and promising for heart disease dataset. We showed that ensemble-learning framework based on deep models could overcome the problem of classifying an unbalanced heart disease dataset. Our proposed framework can lead to highly accurate models that are adapted for clinical real data and diagnosis use.

Connected-UNets: a deep learning architecture for breast mass segmentation
A swarm approach for emission sources localization
We provide a biasing expansion swarm approach (BESA) for using multiple simple mobile agents, with limited sensing and communication capabilities, to collaboratively search and locate an indeterminate number of emission sources in an unknown large-scale area. The key concept in this approach is swarm behavior. By applying the three properties of the swarm behavior: separation, cohesion and alignment, our approach can ensure the agent group attains dynamically stable ad-hoc connectivity and fast target convergence. Using a grid map to represent the unknown environment, an ad-hoc network for wireless communication and our biasing expansion algorithm for path planning, each agent simultaneously considers all concentration values collected by other swarm members and determines the positive gradient direction of the whole coverage area of the swarm. This will make the swarm immune to the random sensor errors, local aerosol accumulations and other local interference effects during their search. We present a simulated environment that has multiple emission sources and complex aerosol accumulation and distribution. Based on the simulation, our approach can achieve better performance than the gradient descent approach, which currently appears to be the most popular algorithm for emission source localization.

Graph cut optimization for the Mumford-Shah model
In this paper, we introduce a Graph Cut Based Level Set (GCBLS) formulation that incorporates graph cuts to optimize the curve evolution energy function presented earlier by Chan and Vese. We present a discrete form of the level set energy function, prove that it is graph-representable, and minimize it using graph cuts. The major advantages of this formulation include the existence of global minimum and its insensitivity to initialization. Numerical implementations show that minimizing the energy function in this non-iterative manner improves the speed of the algorithm dramatically. This makes it more appealing to real time applications such as object tracking and image guided surgery. Yet, all the advantages of using level sets methods will still be preserved.

A personalized autism diagnosis CAD system using a fusion of structural MRI and resting-state functional MRI data
Autism spectrum disorder is a neuro-developmental disorder that affects the social abilities of the patients. Yet, the gold standard of autism diagnosis is the autism diagnostic observation schedule (ADOS). In this study, we are implementing a computer-aided diagnosis system that utilizes structural MRI (sMRI) and resting-state functional MRI (fMRI) to demonstrate that both anatomical abnormalities and functional connectivity abnormalities have high prediction ability of autism. The proposed system studies how the anatomical and functional connectivity metrics provide an overall diagnosis of whether the subject is autistic or not and are correlated with ADOS scores. The system provides a personalized report per subject to show what areas are more affected by autism-related impairment. Our system achieved accuracies of 75% when using fMRI data only, 79% when using sMRI data only, and 81% when fusing both together. Such a system achieves an important next step towards delineating the neurocircuits responsible for the autism diagnosis and hence may provide better options for physicians in devising personalized treatment plans.

A generalized deep learning-based diagnostic system for early diagnosis of various types of pulmonary nodules
A novel framework for the classification of lung nodules using computed tomography scans is proposed in this article. To get an accurate diagnosis of the detected lung nodules, the proposed framework integrates the following 2 groups of features: (1) appearance features modeled using the higher order Markov Gibbs random field model that has the ability to describe the spatial inhomogeneities inside the lung nodule and (2) geometric features that describe the shape geometry of the lung nodules. The novelty of this article is to accurately model the appearance of the detected lung nodules using a new developed seventh-order Markov Gibbs random field model that has the ability to model the existing spatial inhomogeneities for both small and large detected lung nodules, in addition to the integration with the extracted geometric features. Finally, a deep autoencoder classifier is fed by the above 2 feature groups to distinguish between the malignant and benign nodules. To evaluate the proposed framework, we used the publicly available data from the Lung Image Database Consortium. We used a total of 727 nodules that were collected from 467 patients. The proposed system demonstrates the promise to be a valuable tool for the detection of lung cancer evidenced by achieving a nodule classification accuracy of 91.20%.

Tissue classification and segmentation of pressure injuries using convolutional neural networks
3D Kidney Segmentation from Abdominal Images Using Spatial‐Appearance Models
Kidney segmentation is an essential step in developing any noninvasive computer-assisted diagnostic system for renal function assessment. This paper introduces an automated framework for 3D kidney segmentation from dynamic computed tomography (CT) images that integrates discriminative features from the current and prior CT appearances into a random forest classification approach. To account for CT images' inhomogeneities, we employ discriminate features that are extracted from a higher-order spatial model and an adaptive shape model in addition to the first-order CT appearance. To model the interactions between CT data voxels, we employed a higher-order spatial model, which adds the triple and quad clique families to the traditional pairwise clique family. The kidney shape prior model is built using a set of training CT data and is updated during segmentation using not only region labels but also voxels' appearances in neighboring spatial voxel locations. Our framework performance has been evaluated on in vivo dynamic CT data collected from 20 subjects and comprises multiple 3D scans acquired before and after contrast medium administration. Quantitative evaluation between manually and automatically segmented kidney contours using Dice similarity, percentage volume differences, and 95th-percentile bidirectional Hausdorff distances confirms the high accuracy of our approach.

Myocardial borders segmentation from cine MR images using bidirectional coupled parametric deformable models
PURPOSE
The authors propose 3D (2D + time) novel, fast, robust, bidirectional coupled parametric deformable models that are capable of segmenting left ventricle (LV) wall borders using first- and second-order visual appearance features. The authors examine the effect of the proposed segmentation method on the estimation of global cardiac performance indexes.


METHODS
First-order visual appearance of the cine cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) signals (inside and outside the boundary of the deformable model) is modeled with an adaptive linear combination of discrete Gaussians (LCDG). Second-order visual appearance of the LV wall is accurately modeled with a translational and rotation-invariant second-order Markov-Gibbs random field (MGRF). The LCDG parameters are estimated using our previously proposed modification of the EM algorithm, and the potentials of rotationally invariant MGRF are computed analytically.


RESULTS
The authors tested the proposed segmentation approach on 15 cine CMR data sets using the Dice similarity coefficient (DSC) and the average distance (AD) between the ground truth and automated segmentation contours. The authors documented an average DSC value of 0.926 ± 0.022 and an average AD value of 2.16 ± 0.60 mm compared to two other level set methods that achieve an average DSC values of 0.904 ± 0.033 and 0.885 ± 0.02; and an average AD values of 2.86 ± 1.35 mm and 5.72 ± 4.70 mm, respectively.


CONCLUSIONS
The proposed segmentation approach demonstrated superior performance over other methods. Specifically, the comparative results on the publicly available MICCAI 2009 Cardiac MR Left Ventricle Segmentation database documented superior performance of the proposed approach over published methods. Additionally, the high accuracy of our segmentation approach leads to accurate estimation of the global performance indexes, as evidenced by the Bland-Altman analyses of the end-systolic volume (ESV), end-diastolic volume (EDV), and the ejection fraction (EF) ratio.

Kidney segmentation from CT images using a 3D NMF-guided active contour model
A hybrid framework that is based on the integration of geometric deformable models and nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) is introduced for 3D kidney segmentation from abdominal computed tomography (CT) images. The NMF is employed due to its ability to cluster complex data by extracting discriminative features from higher dimensional space. In this paper, regional features from CT appearance, a kidney shape model, and spatial interactions are fused using the NMF to produce a more robust model to guide the deformable model's evolution. The shape model is constructed using a set of training images and is updated during segmentation using an appearance-based method taking into account both voxels' locations and appearances. The spatial interactions are modeled using a pair-wise Potts Markov-Gibbs random field model. Our approach has been tested on 36 in-vivo 3D CT data sets and evaluated using, the Dice coefficient, the 95-percentile Hausdorff distance, and percentage kidney volume difference. Evaluation results show that feature fusion using NMF increases the deformable model's ability to accurately segment complex CT kidney data.

A new framework for incorporating appearance and shape features of lung nodules for precise diagnosis of lung cancer
This paper proposes a novel framework for the classification of lung nodules using computed tomography (CT) scans. The proposed framework is based on the integrating the following features to get accurate diagnosis of detected lung nodules: (i) Spherical Harmonics-based shape features that have the ability to describe the shape complexity of the lung nodules; (ii) Higher-Order Markov Gibbs Random Field (MGRF)-based appearance model that has the ability to describe the spatial inhomogeneities in the lung nodule; and (iii) volumetric features that describe the size of lung nodules. To accurately model the surface/shape of the detect lung nodules, we used spherical harmonics expansion due to its ability to approximate the surfaces of complicated shapes. We will use the reconstruction error curve as a new metric to describe the shape complexity of the detected lung nodules. Moreover, we developed a new higher 7th-order MGRF model that has the ability to model the existing the spatial inhomogeneities for both small and large detected lung nodules. Finally, a deep autoencoder (AE) classifier is fed by the above three features to distinguish between the malignant and benign nodules. To evaluate the proposed framework, we used the publicly available data from the Lung Image Database Consortium (LIDC). We used a total of 116 nodules that were collected from 60 patients. By achieving a classification accuracy of 96.00%, the proposed system demonstrates promise to be a valuable tool for the detection of lung cancer.

A NEW SEGMENTATION-BASED TRACKING FRAMEWORK FOR EXTRACTING THE LEFT VENTRICLE CAVITY FROM CINE CARDIAC MRI
Is it better to combine predictions?
We have compared the accuracy of the individual protein secondary structure prediction methods: PHD, DSC, NNSSP and Predator against the accuracy obtained by combing the predictions of the methods. A range of ways of combing predictions were tested: voting, biased voting, linear discrimination, neural networks and decision trees. The combined methods that involve 'learning' (the non-voting methods) were trained using a set of 496 non-homologous domains; this dataset was biased as some of the secondary structure prediction methods had used them for training. We used two independent test sets to compare predictions: the first consisted of 17 non-homologous domains from CASP3 (Third Community Wide Experiment on the Critical Assessment of Techniques for Protein Structure Prediction); the second set consisted of 405 domains that were selected in the same way as the training set, and were non-homologous to each other and the training set. On both test datasets the most accurate individual method was NNSSP, then PHD, DSC and the least accurate was Predator; however, it was not possible to conclusively show a significant difference between the individual methods. Comparing the accuracy of the single methods with that obtained by combing predictions it was found that it was better to use a combination of predictions. On both test datasets it was possible to obtain a approximately 3% improvement in accuracy by combing predictions. In most cases the combined methods were statistically significantly better (at P = 0.05 on the CASP3 test set, and P = 0.01 on the EBI test set). On the CASP3 test dataset there was no significant difference in accuracy between any of the combined method of prediction: on the EBI test dataset, linear discrimination and neural networks significantly outperformed voting techniques. We conclude that it is better to combine predictions.

DONE