Lower extremity exoskeletons and active orthoses: Challenges and state-of-the-art
In the nearly six decades since researchers began to explore methods of creating them, exoskeletons have progressed from the stuff of science fiction to nearly commercialized products. While there are still many challenges associated with exoskeleton development that have yet to be perfected, the advances in the field have been enormous. In this paper, we review the history and discuss the state-of-the-art of lower limb exoskeletons and active orthoses. We provide a design overview of hardware, actuation, sensory, and control systems for most of the devices that have been described in the literature, and end with a discussion of the major advances that have been made and hurdles yet to be overcome.

The grasp taxonomy of human grasp types
In this paper, we analyze and compare existing human grasp taxonomies and synthesize them into a single new taxonomy (dubbed “The GRASP Taxonomy” after the GRASP project funded by the European Commission). We consider only static and stable grasps performed by one hand. The goal is to extract the largest set of different grasps that were referenced in the literature and arrange them in a systematic way. The taxonomy provides a common terminology to define human hand configurations and is important in many domains such as human-computer interaction and tangible user interfaces where an understanding of the human is basis for a proper interface. Overall, 33 different grasp types are found and arranged into the GRASP taxonomy. Within the taxonomy, grasps are arranged according to 1) opposition type, 2) the virtual finger assignments, 3) type in terms of power, precision, or intermediate grasp, and 4) the position of the thumb. The resulting taxonomy incorporates all grasps found in the reviewed taxonomies that complied with the grasp definition. We also show that due to the nature of the classification, the 33 grasp types might be reduced to a set of 17 more general grasps if only the hand configuration is considered without the object shape/size.

The ycb object and model set: Towards common benchmarks for manipulation research
In this paper we present the Yale-CMU-Berkeley (YCB) Object and Model set, intended to be used for benchmarking in robotic grasping and manipulation research. The objects in the set are designed to cover various aspects of the manipulation problem; it includes objects of daily life with different shapes, sizes, textures, weight and rigidity, as well as some widely used manipulation tests. The associated database provides high-resolution RGBD scans, physical properties and geometric models of the objects for easy incorporation into manipulation and planning software platforms. A comprehensive literature survey on existing benchmarks and object datasets is also presented and their scope and limitations are discussed. The set will be freely distributed to research groups worldwide at a series of tutorials at robotics conferences, and will be otherwise available at a reasonable purchase cost.

Mechanical design and performance specifications of anthropomorphic prosthetic hands: a review
In this article, we set forth a detailed analysis of the mechanical characteristics of anthropomorphic prosthetic hands. We report on an empirical study concerning the performance of several commercially available myoelectric prosthetic hands, including the Vincent, iLimb, iLimb Pulse, Bebionic, Bebionic v2, and Michelangelo hands. We investigated the finger design and kinematics, mechanical joint coupling, and actuation methods of these commercial prosthetic hands. The empirical findings are supplemented with a compilation of published data on both commercial and prototype research prosthetic hands. We discuss numerous mechanical design parameters by referencing examples in the literature. Crucial design trade-offs are highlighted, including number of actuators and hand complexity, hand weight, and grasp force. Finally, we offer a set of rules of thumb regarding the mechanical design of anthropomorphic prosthetic hands.

Benchmarking in manipulation research: Using the Yale-CMU-Berkeley object and model set
In this article, we present the Yale-Carnegie Mellon University (CMU)-Berkeley (YCB) object and model set, intended to be used to facilitate benchmarking in robotic manipulation research. The objects in the set are designed to cover a wide range of aspects of the manipulation problem. The set includes objects of daily life with different shapes, sizes, textures, weights, and rigidities as well as some widely used manipulation tests. The associated database provides high-resolution red, green, blue, plus depth (RGB-D) scans, physical properties, and geometric models of the objects for easy incorporation into manipulation and planning software platforms. In addition to describing the objects and models in the set along with how they were chosen and derived, we provide a framework and a number of example task protocols, laying out how the set can be used to quantitatively evaluate a range of manipulation approaches, including planning, learning, mechanical design, control, and many others. A comprehensive literature survey on the existing benchmarks and object data sets is also presented, and their scope and limitations are discussed. The YCB set will be freely distributed to research groups worldwide at a series of tutorials at robotics conferences. Subsequent sets will be, otherwise, available to purchase at a reasonable cost. It is our hope that the ready availability of this set along with the ground laid in terms of protocol templates will enable the community of manipulation researchers to more easily compare approaches as well as continually evolve standardized benchmarking tests and metrics as the field matures.

