The recognition of human movement using temporal templates
A view-based approach to the representation and recognition of human movement is presented. The basis of the representation is a temporal template-a static vector-image where the vector value at each point is a function of the motion properties at the corresponding spatial location in an image sequence. Using aerobics exercises as a test domain, we explore the representational power of a simple, two component version of the templates: The first value is a binary value indicating the presence of motion and the second value is a function of the recency of motion in a sequence. We then develop a recognition method matching temporal templates against stored instances of views of known actions. The method automatically performs temporal segmentation, is invariant to linear changes in speed, and runs in real-time on standard platforms.

Graphcut textures: Image and video synthesis using graph cuts
In this paper we introduce a new algorithm for image and video texture synthesis. In our approach, patch regions from a sample image or video are transformed and copied to the output and then stitched together along optimal seams to generate a new (and typically larger) output. In contrast to other techniques, the size of the patch is not chosen a-priori, but instead a graph cut technique is used to determine the optimal patch region for any given offset between the input and output texture. Unlike dynamic programming, our graph cut technique for seam optimization is applicable in any dimension. We specifically explore it in 2D and 3D to perform video texture synthesis in addition to regular image synthesis. We present approximative offset search techniques that work well in conjunction with the presented patch size optimization. We show results for synthesizing regular, random, and natural images and videos. We also demonstrate how this method can be used to interactively merge different images to generate new scenes.

The representation and recognition of human movement using temporal templates
A new view-based approach to the representation and recognition of action is presented. The basis of the representation is a temporal template-a static vector-image where the vector value at each point is a function of the motion properties at the corresponding spatial location in an image sequence. Using 18 aerobics exercises as a test domain, we explore the representational power of a simple, two component version of the templates: the first value is a binary value indicating the presence of motion, and the second value is a function of the recency of motion in a sequence. We then develop a recognition method which matches these temporal templates against stored instances of views of known actions. The method automatically performs temporal segmentation, is invariant to linear changes in speed, and runs in real-time on a standard platform. We recently incorporated this technique into the KIDSROOM: an interactive, narrative play-space for children.

Recognition of visual activities and interactions by stochastic parsing
This paper describes a probabilistic syntactic approach to the detection and recognition of temporally extended activities and interactions between multiple agents. The fundamental idea is to divide the recognition problem into two levels. The lower level detections are performed using standard independent probabilistic event detectors to propose candidate detections of low-level features. The outputs of these detectors provide the input stream for a stochastic context-free grammar parsing mechanism. The grammar and parser provide longer range temporal constraints, disambiguate uncertain low-level detections, and allow the inclusion of a priori knowledge about the structure of temporal events in a given domain. We develop a real-time system and demonstrate the approach in several experiments on gesture recognition and in video surveillance. In the surveillance application, we show how the system correctly interprets activities of multiple interacting objects.

Texture optimization for example-based synthesis
We present a novel technique for texture synthesis using optimization. We define a Markov Random Field (MRF)-based similarity metric for measuring the quality of synthesized texture with respect to a given input sample. This allows us to formulate the synthesis problem as minimization of an energy function, which is optimized using an Expectation Maximization (EM)-like algorithm. In contrast to most example-based techniques that do region-growing, ours is a joint optimization approach that progressively refines the entire texture. Additionally, our approach is ideally suited to allow for controllable synthesis of textures. Specifically, we demonstrate controllability by animating image textures using flow fields. We allow for general two-dimensional flow fields that may dynamically change over time. Applications of this technique include dynamic texturing of fluid animations and texture-based flow visualization.

Parametric hidden markov models for gesture recognition
A method for the representation, recognition, and interpretation of parameterized gesture is presented. By parameterized gesture we mean gestures that exhibit a systematic spatial variation; one example is a point gesture where the relevant parameter is the two-dimensional direction. Our approach is to extend the standard hidden Markov model method of gesture recognition by including a global parametric variation in the output probabilities of the HMM states. Using a linear model of dependence, we formulate an expectation-maximization (EM) method for training the parametric HMM. During testing, a similar EM algorithm simultaneously maximizes the output likelihood of the PHMM for the given sequence and estimates the quantifying parameters. Using visually derived and directly measured three-dimensional hand position measurements as input, we present results that demonstrate the recognition superiority of the PHMM over standard HMM techniques, as well as greater robustness in parameter estimation with respect to noise in the input features. Finally, we extend the PHMM to handle arbitrary smooth (nonlinear) dependencies. The nonlinear formulation requires the use of a generalized expectation-maximization (GEM) algorithm for both training and the simultaneous recognition of the gesture and estimation of the value of the parameter. We present results on a pointing gesture, where the nonlinear approach permits the natural spherical coordinate parameterization of pointing direction.

Large occlusion stereo
Interactive exercise apparatus
The use of electronic monitoring instruments in conventional exercise training equipments has had a positive influence on user interest level, subsequently increasing the overall exercise experience and performance. Accordingly, the most beneficial results of any exercise are obtained when an individual is given a specific, easily understandable performance target, is informed of the exercise progress, and is given verbal motivation, coaching, encouragement, and instruction. However, conventional electronic monitoring instruments do not serve to directly motivate or coach the individual to complete an exercise program. Moreover, such a device is of limited use in non-cardiovascular, strength training exercise equipment (e.g free weights and isometric exercises). The present invention responds to this problem by providing a smart motion sensor magnetically retrofittable into exercise apparatus such as a dumbbell, or as part of a piece of exercise equipment, such as a metal handle of exercise equipment that undergoes reciprocal movement. This sensor will continuously transmit a signal to an application in user’s smart device, which then correspondingly generated guided instructional, interactive feedback as well as motivational visual and audio output with respect to various physical exercise a user might undertake. The development of such a practical exercise system would certainly help the active individual, clinical population, athletes, aging and sedentary population to implement a more effective, interactive and safer exercise training regime.

The KidsRoom: A perceptually-based interactive and immersive story environment
The KidsRoom is a perceptually-based, interactive, narrative playspace for children. Images, music, narration, light, and sound effects are used to transform a normal child's bedroom into a fantasy land where children are guided through a reactive adventure story. The fully automated system was designed with the following goals: (1) to keep the focus of user action and interaction in the physical and not virtual space; (2) to permit multiple, collaborating people to simultaneously engage in an interactive experience combining both real and virtual objects; (3) to use computer-vision algorithms to identify activity in the space without requiring the participants to wear any special clothing or devices; (4) to use narrative to constrain the perceptual recognition, and to use perceptual recognition to allow participants to drive the narrative; and (5) to create a truly immersive and interactive room environment. We believe the KidsRoom is the first multi-person, fully-automated, interactive, narrative environment ever constructed using non-encumbering sensors. This paper describes the KidsRoom, the technology that makes it work, and the issues that were raised during the system's development.1 A demonstration of the project, which complements the material presented here and includes videos, images, and sounds from each part of the story is available at .

Gait recognition using static, activity-specific parameters
A gait-recognition technique that recovers static body and stride parameters of subjects as they walk is presented. This approach is an example of an activity-specific biometric: a method of extracting identifying properties of an individual or of an individual's behavior that is applicable only when a person is performing that specific action. To evaluate our parameters, we derive an expected confusion metric (related to mutual information), as opposed to reporting a percent correct with a limited database. This metric predicts how well a given feature vector will filter identity in a large population. We test the utility of a variety of body and stride parameters recovered in different viewing conditions on a database consisting of 15 to 20 subjects walking at both an angled and frontal-parallel view with respect to the camera, both indoors and out. We also analyze motion-capture data of the subjects to discover whether confusion in the parameters is inherently a physical or a visual measurement error property.

Recognition of human body motion using phase space constraints
A new method for representing and recognizing human body movements is presented. The basic idea is to identify sets of constraints that are diagnostic of a movement: expressed using body-centered coordinates such as joint angles and in force only during a particular movement. Assuming the availability of Cartesian tracking data, we develop techniques for a representation of movements defined by space curves in subspaces of a "phase space." The phase space has axes of joint angles and torso location and attitude, and the axes of the subspaces are subsets of the axes of the phase space. Using this representation we develop a system for learning new movements from ground truth data by searching for constraints. We then use the learned representation for recognizing movements in unsegmented data. We train and test the system on nine fundamental steps from classical ballet performed by two dancers; the system accurately recognizes the movements in the unsegmented stream of motion.<<ETX>>

Movement, activity and action: the role of knowledge in the perception of motion
This paper presents several approaches to the machine perception of motion and discusses the role and levels of knowledge in each. In particular, different techniques of motion understanding as focusing on one of movement, activity or action are described. Movements are the most atomic primitives, requiring no contextual or sequence knowledge to be recognized; movement is often addressed using either view-invariant or view-specific geometric techniques. Activity refers to sequences of movements or states, where the only real knowledge required is the statistics of the sequence; much of the recent work in gesture understanding falls within this category of motion perception. Finally, actions are larger-scale events, which typically include interaction with the environment and causal relationships; action understanding straddles the grey division between perception and cognition, computer vision and artificial intelligence. These levels are illustrated with examples drawn mostly from the group's work in understanding motion in video imagery. It is argued that the utility of such a division is that it makes explicit the representational competencies and manipulations necessary for perception.

A state-based approach to the representation and recognition of gesture
A state-based technique for the representation and recognition of gesture is presented. We define a gesture to be a sequence of states in a measurement or configuration space. For a given gesture, these states are used to capture both the repeatability and variability evidenced in a training set of example trajectories. Using techniques for computing a prototype trajectory of an ensemble of trajectories, we develop methods for defining configuration states along the prototype and for recognizing gestures from an unsegmented, continuous stream of sensor data. The approach is illustrated by application to a range of gesture-related sensory data: the two-dimensional movements of a mouse input device, the movement of the hand measured by a magnetic spatial position and orientation sensor, and, lastly, the changing eigenvector projection coefficients computed from an image sequence.

Interactive exercise apparatus
The use of electronic monitoring instruments in conventional exercise training equipments has had a positive influence on user interest level, subsequently increasing the overall exercise experience and performance. Accordingly, the most beneficial results of any exercise are obtained when an individual is given a specific, easily understandable performance target, is informed of the exercise progress, and is given verbal motivation, coaching, encouragement, and instruction. However, conventional electronic monitoring instruments do not serve to directly motivate or coach the individual to complete an exercise program. Moreover, such a device is of limited use in non-cardiovascular, strength training exercise equipment (e.g free weights and isometric exercises). The present invention responds to this problem by providing a smart motion sensor magnetically retrofittable into exercise apparatus such as a dumbbell, or as part of a piece of exercise equipment, such as a metal handle of exercise equipment that undergoes reciprocal movement. This sensor will continuously transmit a signal to an application in user’s smart device, which then correspondingly generated guided instructional, interactive feedback as well as motivational visual and audio output with respect to various physical exercise a user might undertake. The development of such a practical exercise system would certainly help the active individual, clinical population, athletes, aging and sedentary population to implement a more effective, interactive and safer exercise training regime.

Real-time closed-world tracking
A real-time tracking algorithm that uses contextual information is described. The method is capable of simultaneously tracking multiple, non-rigid objects when erratic movement and object collisions are common. A closed-world assumption is used to adaptively select and weight image features used for correspondence. Results of algorithm testing and the limitations of the method are discussed. The algorithm has been used to track children in an interactive, narrative playspace.

Invariant features for 3-D gesture recognition
Ten different feature vectors are tested in a gesture recognition task which utilizes 3D data gathered in real-time from stereo video cameras, and HMMs for learning and recognition of gestures. Results indicate velocity features are superior to positional features, and partial rotational invariance is sufficient for good performance.

Real-time recognition of activity using temporal templates
A new view based approach to the representation and recognition of action is presented. The basis of the representation is a motion history image (MHI)-a static image where intensity is a function of the recency of motion in a sequence. We develop a recognition method which uses both binary and scalar valued versions of the MHI as temporal templates to match against stored instances of actions. The method automatically performs temporal segmentation, as invariant to linear changes in speed, and runs in real time on a standard platform. The applications we have begun to develop include simple room monitoring and an interactive game.

A multi-view method for gait recognition using static body parameters
Fast lighting independent background subtraction
Disparity-space images and large occlusion stereo
DONE