Inversecsg: Automatic conversion of 3d models to csg trees
Design and fabrication by example
We propose a data-driven method for designing 3D models that can be fabricated. First, our approach converts a collection of expert-created designs to a dataset of parameterized design templates that includes all information necessary for fabrication. The templates are then used in an interactive design system to create new fabri-cable models in a design-by-example manner. A simple interface allows novice users to choose template parts from the database, change their parameters, and combine them to create new models. Using the information in the template database, the system can automatically position, align, and connect parts: the system accomplishes this by adjusting parameters, adding appropriate constraints, and assigning connectors. This process ensures that the created models can be fabricated, saves the user from many tedious but necessary tasks, and makes it possible for non-experts to design and create actual physical objects. To demonstrate our data-driven method, we present several examples of complex functional objects that we designed and manufactured using our system.

Interactive design space exploration and optimization for CAD models
Computer Aided Design (CAD) is a multi-billion dollar industry used by almost every mechanical engineer in the world to create practically every existing manufactured shape. CAD models are not only widely available but also extremely useful in the growing field of fabrication-oriented design because they are parametric by construction and capture the engineer's design intent, including manufacturability. Harnessing this data, however, is challenging, because generating the geometry for a given parameter value requires time-consuming computations. Furthermore, the resulting meshes have different combinatorics, making the mesh data inherently discontinuous with respect to parameter adjustments. In our work, we address these challenges and develop tools that allow interactive exploration and optimization of parametric CAD data. To achieve interactive rates, we use precomputation on an adaptively sampled grid and propose a novel scheme for interpolating in this domain where each sample is a mesh with different combinatorics. Specifically, we extract partial correspondences from CAD representations for local mesh morphing and propose a novel interpolation method for adaptive grids that is both continuous/smooth and local (i.e., the influence of each sample is constrained to the local regions where mesh morphing can be computed). We show examples of how our method can be used to interactively visualize and optimize objects with a variety of physical properties.

Computational multicopter design
We present an interactive system for computational design, optimization, and fabrication of multicopters. Our computational approach allows non-experts to design, explore, and evaluate a wide range of different multicopters. We provide users with an intuitive interface for assembling a multicopter from a collection of components (e.g., propellers, motors, and carbon fiber rods). Our algorithm interactively optimizes shape and controller parameters of the current design to ensure its proper operation. In addition, we allow incorporating a variety of other metrics (such as payload, battery usage, size, and cost) into the design process and exploring tradeoffs between them. We show the efficacy of our method and system by designing, optimizing, fabricating, and operating multicopters with complex geometries and propeller configurations. We also demonstrate the ability of our optimization algorithm to improve the multicopter performance under different metrics.

Learning to fly: computational controller design for hybrid uavs with reinforcement learning
Interactive robogami: An end-to-end system for design of robots with ground locomotion
This paper aims to democratize the design and fabrication of robots, enabling people of all skill levels to make robots without needing expert domain knowledge. Existing work in computational design and rapid fabrication has explored this question of customization for physical objects but so far has not been able to conquer the complexity of robot designs. We have developed Interactive Robogami, a tool for composition-based design of ground robots that can be fabricated as flat sheets and then folded into 3D structures. This rapid prototyping process enables users to create lightweight, affordable, and materially versatile robots with short turnaround time. Using Interactive Robogami, designers can compose new robot designs from a database of print-and-fold parts. The designs are tested for the users’ functional specifications via simulation and fabricated on user satisfaction. We present six robots designed and fabricated using a 3D printing based approach, as well as a larger robot cut from sheet metal. We have also conducted a user study that demonstrates that our tool is intuitive for novice designers and expressive enough to create a wide variety of ground robot designs.

Automate: A dataset and learning approach for automatic mating of cad assemblies
Interactive exploration of design trade-offs
Typical design for manufacturing applications requires simultaneous optimization of conflicting performance objectives: Design variations that improve one performance metric may decrease another performance metric. In these scenarios, there is no unique optimal design but rather a set of designs that are optimal for different trade-offs (called Pareto-optimal). In this work, we propose a novel approach to discover the Pareto front, allowing designers to navigate the landscape of compromises efficiently. Our approach is based on a first-order approximation of the Pareto front, which allows entire neighborhoods rather than individual points on the Pareto front to be captured. In addition to allowing for efficient discovery of the Pareto front and the corresponding mapping to the design space, this approach allows us to represent the entire trade-off manifold as a small collection of patches that comprise a high-quality and piecewise-smooth approximation. We illustrate how this technique can be used for navigating performance trade-offs in computer-aided design (CAD) models.

On the empirical rate-distortion performance of compressive sensing
Compressive Sensing (CS) is a new paradigm in signal acquisition and compression that has been attracting the interest of the signal compression community. When it comes to image compression applications, it is relevant to estimate the number of bits required to reach a specific image quality. Although several theoretical results regarding the rate-distortion performance of CS have been published recently, there are not many practical image compression results available. The main goal of this paper is to carry out an empirical analysis of the rate-distortion performance of CS in image compression. We analyze issues such as the minimization algorithm used and the transform employed, as well as the trade-off between number of measurements and quantization error. From the experimental results obtained we highlight the potential and limitations of CS when compared to traditional image compression methods.

Rewrite rule inference using equality saturation
Many compilers, synthesizers, and theorem provers rely on rewrite rules to simplify expressions or prove equivalences. Developing rewrite rules can be difficult: rules may be subtly incorrect, profitable rules are easy to miss, and rulesets must be rechecked or extended whenever semantics are tweaked. Large rulesets can also be challenging to apply: redundant rules slow down rule-based search and frustrate debugging. This paper explores how equality saturation, a promising technique that uses e-graphs to apply rewrite rules, can also be used to infer rewrite rules. E-graphs can compactly represent the exponentially large sets of enumerated terms and potential rewrite rules. We show that equality saturation efficiently shrinks both sets, leading to faster synthesis of smaller, more general rulesets. We prototyped these strategies in a tool dubbed Ruler. Compared to a similar tool built on CVC4, Ruler synthesizes 5.8× smaller rulesets 25× faster without compromising on proving power. In an end-to-end case study, we show Ruler-synthesized rules which perform as well as those crafted by domain experts, and addressed a longstanding issue in a popular open source tool.

Retrieval on parametric shape collections
While collections of parametric shapes are growing in size and use, little progress has been made on the fundamental problem of shape-based matching and retrieval for parametric shapes in a collection. The search space for such collections is both discrete (number of shapes) and continuous (parameter values). In this work, we propose representing this space using descriptors that have shown to be effective for single shape retrieval. While single shapes can be represented as points in a descriptor space, parametric shapes are mapped into larger continuous regions. For smooth descriptors, we can assume that these regions are bounded low-dimensional manifolds where the dimensionality is given by the number of shape parameters. We propose representing these manifolds with a set of primitives, namely, points and bounded tangent spaces. Our algorithm describes how to define these primitives and how to use them to construct a manifold approximation that allows accurate and fast retrieval. We perform an analysis based on curvature, boundary evaluation, and the allowed approximation error to select between primitive types. We show how to compute decision variables with no need for empirical parameter adjustments and discuss theoretical guarantees on retrieval accuracy. We validate our approach with experiments that use different types of descriptors on a collection of shapes from multiple categories.

Carpentry compiler
Traditional manufacturing workflows strongly decouple design and fabrication phases. As a result, fabrication-related objectives such as manufacturing time and precision are difficult to optimize in the design space, and vice versa. This paper presents HL-HELM, a high-level, domain-specific language for expressing abstract, parametric fabrication plans; it also introduces LL-HELM, a low-level language for expressing concrete fabrication plans that take into account the physical constraints of available manufacturing processes. We present a new compiler that supports the real-time, unoptimized translation of high-level, geometric fabrication operations into concrete, tool-specific fabrication instructions; this gives users immediate feedback on the physical feasibility of plans as they design them. HELM offers novel optimizations to improve accuracy and reduce fabrication time as well as material costs. Finally, optimized low-level plans can be interpreted as step-by-step instructions for users to actually fabricate a physical product. We provide a variety of example fabrication plans in the carpentry domain that are designed using our high-level language, show how the compiler translates and optimizes these plans to generate concrete low-level instructions, and present the final physical products fabricated in wood.

How Can Large Language Models Help Humans in Design and Manufacturing?
The advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs), including GPT-4, provides exciting new opportunities for generative design. We investigate the application of this tool across the entire design and manufacturing workflow. Specifically, we scrutinize the utility of LLMs in tasks such as: converting a text-based prompt into a design specification, transforming a design into manufacturing instructions, producing a design space and design variations, computing the performance of a design, and searching for designs predicated on performance. Through a series of examples, we highlight both the benefits and the limitations of the current LLMs. By exposing these limitations, we aspire to catalyze the continued improvement and progression of these models.

Differentiable 3d cad programs for bidirectional editing
Modern CAD tools represent 3D designs not only as geometry, but also as a program composed of geometric operations, each of which depends on a set of parameters. Program representations enable meaningful and controlled shape variations via parameter changes. However, achieving desired modifications solely through parameter editing is challenging when CAD models have not been explicitly authored to expose select degrees of freedom in advance. We introduce a novel bidirectional editing system for 3D CAD programs. In addition to editing the CAD program, users can directly manipulate 3D geometry and our system infers parameter updates to keep both representations in sync. We formulate inverse edits as a set of constrained optimization objectives, returning plausible updates to program parameters that both match user intent and maintain program validity. Our approach implements an automatically differentiable domain‐specific language for CAD programs, providing derivatives for this optimization to be performed quickly on any expressed program. Our system enables rapid, interactive exploration of a constrained 3D design space by allowing users to manipulate the program and geometry interchangeably during design iteration. While our approach is not designed to optimize across changes in geometric topology, we show it is expressive and performant enough for users to produce a diverse set of design variants, even when the CAD program contains a relatively large number of parameters.

Robot assisted carpentry for mass customization
Despite the ubiquity of carpentered items, the customization of carpentered items remains labor intensive. The generation of laymen editable templates for carpentry is difficult. Current design tools rely heavily on CNC fabrication, limiting applicability. We develop a template based system for carpentry and a robotic fabrication system using mobile robots and standard carpentry tools. Our end-to-end design and fabrication tool democratizes design and fabrication of carpentered items. Our method combines expert knowledge for template design, allows laymen users to customize and verify specific designs, and uses robotics system to fabricate parts. We validate our system using multiple designs to make customizable, verifiable templates and fabrication plans and show an end-to-end example that was designed, manufactured, and assembled using our tools.

Neurosymbolic models for computer graphics
Procedural models (i.e. symbolic programs that output visual data) are a historically‐popular method for representing graphics content: vegetation, buildings, textures, etc. They offer many advantages: interpretable design parameters, stochastic variations, high‐quality outputs, compact representation, and more. But they also have some limitations, such as the difficulty of authoring a procedural model from scratch. More recently, AI‐based methods, and especially neural networks, have become popular for creating graphic content. These techniques allow users to directly specify desired properties of the artifact they want to create (via examples, constraints, or objectives), while a search, optimization, or learning algorithm takes care of the details. However, this ease of use comes at a cost, as it's often hard to interpret or manipulate these representations. In this state‐of‐the‐art report, we summarize research on neurosymbolic models in computer graphics: methods that combine the strengths of both AI and symbolic programs to represent, generate, and manipulate visual data. We survey recent work applying these techniques to represent 2D shapes, 3D shapes, and materials & textures. Along the way, we situate each prior work in a unified design space for neurosymbolic models, which helps reveal underexplored areas and opportunities for future research.

VDAC: volume decompose-and-carve for subtractive manufacturing
Computational design of knit templates
We present an interactive design system for knitting that allows users to create template patterns that can be fabricated using an industrial knitting machine. Our interactive design tool is novel in that it allows direct control of key knitting design axes we have identified in our formative study and does so consistently across the variations of an input parametric template geometry. This is achieved with two key technical advances. First, we present an interactive meshing tool that lets users build a coarse quadrilateral mesh that adheres to their knit design guidelines. This solution ensures consistency across the parameter space for further customization over shape variations and avoids helices, promoting knittability. Second, we lift and formalize low-level machine knitting constraints to the level of this coarse quad mesh. This enables us to not only guarantee hand- and machine-knittability, but also provides automatic design assistance through auto-completion and suggestions. We show the capabilities through a set of fabricated examples that illustrate the effectiveness of our approach in creating a wide variety of objects and interactively exploring the space of design variations.

Compressive sensing
Compressive sensing (CS) is an effective technique for reconstructing image from a small amount of sampled data. It has been widely applied in medical imaging, remote sensing, image compression, etc. In this paper, we propose two versions of a novel deep learning architecture, dubbed as ADMM-CSNet, by combining the traditional model-based CS method and data-driven deep learning method for image reconstruction from sparsely sampled measurements. We first consider a generalized CS model for image reconstruction with undetermined regularizations in undetermined transform domains, and then two efficient solvers using Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM) algorithm for optimizing the model are proposed. We further unroll and generalize the ADMM algorithm to be two deep architectures, in which all parameters of the CS model and the ADMM algorithm are discriminatively learned by end-to-end training. For both applications of fast CS complex-valued MR imaging and CS imaging of real-valued natural images, the proposed ADMM-CSNet achieved favorable reconstruction accuracy in fast computational speed compared with the traditional and the other deep learning methods.

Self-supervised representation learning for cad
Virtually every object in the modern world was created, modified, analyzed and optimized using computer aided design (CAD) tools. An active CAD research area is the use of data-driven machine learning methods to learn from the massive repositories of geometric and program representations. However, the lack of labeled data in CAD's native format, i.e., the parametric boundary representation (B-Rep), poses an obstacle at present difficult to overcome. Several datasets of mechanical parts in B-Rep format have recently been released for machine learning research. However, large-scale databases are mostly unlabeled, and labeled datasets are small. Additionally, task-specific label sets are rare and costly to annotate. This work proposes to leverage unlabeled CAD geometry on supervised learning tasks. We learn a novel, hybrid implicit/explicit surface representation for B-Rep geometry. Further, we show that this pre-training both significantly improves few-shot learning performance and achieves state-of-the-art performance on several current B-Rep benchmarks.

DONE