Channel assignment techniques for multi-radio wireless mesh networks: A survey
With the advent of multiple radio interfaces on a single device, wireless mesh networks start to achieve significant improvement in network capacity, latency, and fault tolerance. The improvement is achieved through concurrent transmissions over different channels utilizing the multiple radio interfaces. However, the introduction of different channels over multiple radios on single mesh node compels to retrospect different issues such as interference, channel diversity, and channel switching from novel perspectives. Due to these novel perspectives, conventional channel assignment techniques proposed for single-radio wireless mesh networks are not generally applicable to the multi-radio cases. Consequently, we have to reconsider the different issues while making a tradeoff among all the available channel assignment options to extract the best performance from a multi-radio wireless mesh network. There are a number of research studies that propose various channel assignment techniques to extract the best performance. In this paper, we present a comprehensive survey on these studies. First, we point out various design issues pertinent to the techniques presented in the studies, and adopt the issues as the basis of our further discussion. Second, we briefly describe several important already-proposed channel assignment techniques. Third, we present a number of channel assignment metrics that are exploited by the already-proposed techniques. Then, depending on the considerations in these techniques, we categorize the techniques and present an exhaustive comparison among them. Nevertheless, we point out a number of real deployments and applications of these techniques in real scenarios. Finally, we identify several open issues for future research with their current status in the literature.

Keystroke/mouse usage based emotion detection and user identification
Emotions are primarily thought of as mental experiences of body states, which are mostly shown in the face with precise and specific muscle patterns. It is, perhaps, the most critical attribute of living beings, and is extremely difficult to detect and generate artificially. Its detection always remains a well-explored classical problem. Existing approaches for detecting human emotions generally demand significant infrastructural overheads. Excluding these overheads, in this paper, we propose a much simpler way of emotion detection. To do so, We have induced different states of emotion through different multimedia components, and then collected participants' keystrokes (free text) and mouse usage data through a custom-developed survey. We have used several existing classifiers (KNN, KStar, RandomCommittee and RandomForest) and a newly proposed light-weight classifier namely Bounded K-means Clustering, to analyze those usage data for different emotional states. Our analysis demonstrates that emotion can be detected from the usage data up to a certain level. Moreover, our proposed classifier enables the best detection of five emotional states namely happiness, inspiration, sympathy, disgust, and fear compared to other existing classifiers. Besides, the analysis also reveals that user identification through usage dynamics does not result in a good level of accuracy when usage gets influenced by different emotional states.

Finding the optimal percentage of cluster heads from a new and complete mathematical model on leach
Network lifetime is one of the important metrics that indicate the performance of a sensor network. Different techniques are used to elongate network lifetime. Among them, clustering is one of the popular techniques. LEACH (Low-Energy Adaptive Clustering Hierarchy) is one of the most widely cited clustering solutions due to its simplicity and effectiveness. LEACH has several parameters that can be tuned to get better performance. Percentage of cluster heads is one such important parameter which affects the network lifetime significantly. At present it is hard to find the optimum value for the percentage of cluster head parameter due to the absence of a complete mathematical model on LEACH. A complete mathematical model on LEACH can be used to tune other LEACH parameters in order to get better performance. In this paper, we formulate a new and complete mathematical model on LEACH. From this new mathematical model, we compute the value for the optimal percentage of cluster heads in order to increase the network lifetime. Simulation results verify both the correctness of our mathematical model and the effectiveness of computing the optimal percentage of cluster heads to increase the network lifetime.

A hybrid IoT-based approach for emergency evacuation
iTCP: an intelligent TCP with neural network based end-to-end congestion control for ad-hoc multi-hop wireless mesh networks
Stable sensor network (SSN): A dynamic clustering technique for maximizing stability in wireless sensor networks
Stability is one of the major concerns in advancement of Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN). A number of applications of WSN require guaranteed sensing, coverage and connectivity throughout its operational period. Death of the first node might cause instability in the network. Therefore, all of the sensor nodes in the network must be alive to achieve the goal during that period. One of the major obstacles to ensure these phenomena is unbalanced energy consumption rate. Different techniques have already been proposed to improve energy consumption rate such as clustering, efficient routing, and data aggregation. However, most of them do not consider the balanced energy consumption rate which is required to improve network stability. In this paper, we present a novel technique, Stable Sensor Network (SSN) to achieve balanced energy consumption rate using dynamic clustering to guarantee stability in WSN. Our technique is based on LEACH (Low-Energy Adaptive Clustering Hierarchy), which is one of the most widely deployed simple and effective clustering solutions for WSN. We present three heuristics to increase the time before the death of first sensor node in the network. We devise the algorithm of SSN based on those heuristics and also formulate its complete mathematical model. We verify the efficiency of SSN and correctness of the mathematical model by simulation results. Our simulation results show that SSN significantly improves network stability period compared to LEACH and its best variant.

μsetl: A set based programming abstraction for wireless sensor networks
Programming wireless sensor networks is a major challenge, even for experienced programmers. To alleviate this problem, prior work has proposed a paradigm shift from node-level microprogramming to macroprogramming, where the user specifies a distributed application using a single macroprogram that is automatically translated into a set of node-level microprograms. This paper makes the case that node-level microprogramming itself can be made much easier by using the right set of programming abstractions. To support this claim, this paper presents μSETL, a programming abstraction for sensor networks based on set theory. Sets offer a powerful formalism and high expressiveness, yet are a natural way of thinking about resource abstraction in sensor networks. In addition to the set abstraction, μSETL features programming constructs that enable event-driven programming at a high level of abstraction, thereby significantly simplifying node-level microprogramming. μSETL consists of a set-based programming language, a compiler that translates μSETL programs into node-specific application code, and a runtime environment that provides various services to support the set-based programming abstraction. μSETL has been implemented using the Contiki operating system and runs on the Telos motes. Experimental results demonstrate that μSETL enables programmers to write various sensor network applications in a natural and highly compact manner with minimal overheads.

Learning from tweets: opportunities and challenges to inform policy making during dengue epidemic
Social media platforms are widely used by people to report, access, and share information during outbreaks and epidemics. Although government agencies and healthcare institutions in developed regions are increasingly relying on social media to develop epidemic forecasts and outbreak response, there is a limited understanding of how people in developing regions interact on social media during outbreaks and what useful insights this dataset could offer during public health crises. In this work, we examined 28,688 tweets to identify public health issues during dengue epidemic in Bangladesh and found several insights, such as irregularities in dengue diagnosis and treatment, shortage of blood supply for Rh negative blood groups, and high local transmission of dengue during Eid-ul-Adha, that impact disease preparedness and outbreak response. We discuss the opportunities and challenges in analyzing tweets and outline how government agencies and healthcare institutions can use social media health data to inform policy making during public health crises.

Man-in-the-middle attack on contactless payment over NFC communications: design, implementation, experiments and detection
A recent development emanating from RFID technology is Near Field Communication (NFC). Basically, NFC is a popular short range (<10 cm) wireless communication technology with applications in areas sensitive to security and privacy concerns such as contactless payment. Since NFC communications require very close proximity between two communicating devices (e.g., a smartcard and a terminal), it is generally believed that Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attacks are practically infeasible here. Contrasting this belief, in this paper, we successfully establish MITM attack in NFC communications between a passive tag and an active terminal. We carefully present physical fundamentals of the attack, our engineering design, and results of successful attack implementation. Subsequently, we present the practical applicability of our MITM attack that exploits a potential vulnerability in EMV based contactless payment protocol, which arises due to separation between card authentication and transaction authorization phases. We demonstrate how an attacker can compromise the integrity of a contactless payment using a malicious MITM card, and also present multiple attack/victim scenarios to analyze different types of impacts of our attack. Further, we conduct rigorous experimental studies to analyze both hardware and practical ramifications of our attack. Finally, we propose a mechanism to detect the MITM attack based on experimental analysis that demands no additional hardware.

Towards achieving a delicate blending between rule-based translator and neural machine translator
Backpacking: Energy-efficient deployment of heterogeneous radios in multi-radio high-data-rate wireless sensor networks
The early success of wireless sensor networks has led to a new generation of increasingly sophisticated sensor network applications, such as HP's CeNSE. These applications demand high network throughput that easily exceeds the capability of the low-power 802.15.4 radios most commonly used in today's sensor nodes. To address this issue, this paper investigates an energy-efficient approach to supplementing an 802.15.4-based wireless sensor network with high bandwidth, high power, longer range radios, such as 802.11. Exploiting a key observation that the high-bandwidth radio achieves low energy consumption per bit of transmitted data due to its inherent transmission efficiency, we propose a hybrid network architecture that utilizes an optimal density of dual-radio (802.15.4 and 802.11) nodes to augment a sensor network having only 802.15.4 radios. We present a cross-layer mathematical model to calculate this optimal density, which strikes a delicate balance between the low energy consumption per transmitted bit of the high-bandwidth radio and low sleep power of the 802.15.4. Experimental results obtained using a wireless sensor network testbed reveal that our architecture improves the average energy per bit, time elapsed before the first node drains its battery, time elapsed before half of the nodes drain their batteries, and end-to-end delay by significant margins compared with a network having only 802.15.4.

Detection of various denial of service and Distributed Denial of Service attacks using RNN ensemble
Denial-of-Service (DoS) and Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) are widely known security attacks which attempt to make computer resources unavailable to its intended users. In this paper, I discuss some well known DoS and DDoS attacks. Experience shows that in the detection of these attacks human brain is more perfect than mathematical computation. Therefore, I propose a technique to incorporate the representative of human brain, Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN), to identify these attacks.

Network-level performance enhancement in wireless nanosensor networks through multi-layer modifications
Researchers consider wireless nanosensor networks (WNSNs) as a revolutionary emerging network paradigm from the point of its diversified applications and contributions to the humanity. Existing research in this field is still in elementary stage and performance enhancement via designing protocol suit represents a potential issue to address for this field. However, most of the studies in the literature mainly focus on lower layers, i.e., Physical and MAC layer protocols leaving upper layers such as Network layer and Transport layer protocols still unexplored. Therefore, in this paper, we explore performance enhancement in WNSNs via modifications in the existing network and transport layers protocols. In this paper, we devise a hierarchical AODV routing protocol and an acknowledgement-based UDP protocol for WNSNs. We perform rigorous simulation in ns−2 to prove the efficacy and efficiency of our proposed mechanisms. Our simulation results reveal significant performance enhancement in wireless nanosensor networks for our proposed protocols.

End-to-end congestion control in wireless mesh networks using a neural network
Maintaining the performance of reliable transport protocols, such as TCP, over wireless mesh networks is a challenging problem due to the unique characteristics of wireless mesh networks such as the lossy nature of the communication medium, absence of a base station, similarity in traffic pattern experienced by neighboring mesh nodes, etc. One of the reasons for the poor performance of conventional TCP variants over wireless mesh networks is that the congestion control mechanisms in conventional TCP variants do not explicitly account for these unique characteristics. To address this problem, this paper proposes a novel neural network based congestion control technique for reliable data transfer over wireless mesh networks. We analyze the proposed congestion control technique in detail and incorporate it into TCP to create a variant that we name intelligent TCP or iTCP. We evaluate the performance of iTCP using ns-2 simulations. Our results demonstrate that our proposed congestion control technique exhibits a significant improvement in total network throughput and average energy consumption per bit compared to congestion control techniques used in other variants of TCP.

Strategizing secured image storing and efficient image retrieval through a new cloud framework
A tale of a deep learning approach to image forgery detection
Social media has become a part and parcel in people’s lives in modern days. Due to the high availability of cameras and presence of various image editing tools in mobiles, it has become much easier to forge fake images. Such false and fake images can and are being used for slandering reputation of popular figures and in dirty political moves. The problem of detecting and localizing such images is known as image forgery detection. Due to how small the edited regions are compared to the full image size, deep learning without manual feature engineering approaches are quite difficult to apply. In this paper, we focus on binary classification of forged or authentic images, and we highlight how deep learning models should be leveraged for good performance in forged image classifications.

Multi-armed bandit congestion control in multi-hop infrastructure wireless mesh networks
Congestion control in multi-hop infrastructure wireless mesh networks is both an important and a unique problem. It is unique because it has two prominent causes of failed transmissions which are difficult to tease apart - lossy nature of wireless medium and high extent of congestion around gateways in the network. The concurrent presence of these two causes limits applicability of already available congestion control mechanisms, proposed for wireless networks. Prior mechanisms mainly focus on the former cause, ignoring the latter one. Therefore, we address this issue to design an end-to-end congestion control mechanism for infrastructure wireless mesh networks in this paper. We formulate the congestion control problem and map that to the restless multi-armed bandit problem, a well-known decision problem in the literature. Then, we propose three myopic policies to achieve a near-optimal solution for the mapped problem since no optimal solution is known to this problem. We perform comparative evaluation through ns-2 simulation and a real testbed experiment with a wireline TCP variant and a wireless TCP protocol. The evaluation reveals that our proposed mechanism can achieve up to 52% increased network throughput and 34% decreased average energy consumption per transmitted bit in comparison to the other end-to-end congestion control variants.

Two tell-tale perspectives of PTSD: neurobiological abnormalities and Bayesian regulatory network of the underlying disorder in a refugee Context
An intelligent IoT approach for analyzing and managing crowds
Crowd management is a considerable challenge in many countries including Saudi Arabia, where millions of pilgrims from all over the world visit Mecca to perform the sacred act of Hajj. This holy ritual requires large crowds to perform the same activities during specific times, which makes crowd management both critical and difficult. Without proper crowd management and control, the occurrence of disasters such as stampedes, suffocation, and congestion becomes highly probable. At present, the internet of things (IoT) and its enabling technologies represent efficient solutions for managing and controlling crowd, minimizing casualties, and integrating different intelligent technologies. Moreover, IoT allows intensive interaction and heterogeneous communication among different devices over the internet, thereby generating big data. This paper proposes an intelligent IoT approach for crowd management with congestion avoidance in the Mina area, which is located in the holy city of Mecca. The approach implements a learning mechanism that classifies pilgrims based on the collected data and exploits the advantages of both IoT and cloud infrastructures to monitor crowds within a congested area, identify evacuation paths for pilgrims and guide the pilgrims to avoid congestion in real time. Moreover, the approach attempts to maximize crowd safety based on realistic scenarios by controlling and adapting pilgrim movements according to the characteristics of the possible hazards, pilgrim behavior, and environmental conditions. We evaluated our proposed approach by performing simulations based on real data sets and scenarios.

Can you get into the middle of near field communication?
A recent development emanating from the widely used RFID technology is Near Field Communication (NFC). Basically, NFC is a popular short range (

DONE