Order-preserving symmetric encryption
Deterministic and efficiently searchable encryption
Order-preserving encryption revisited: Improved security analysis and alternative solutions
Definitional issues in functional encryption
We provide a formalization of the emergent notion of “functional encryption,” as well as introduce various security notions for it, and study relations among the latter. In particular, we show that indistinguishability and semantic security based notions of security are inequivalent for functional encryption in general; in fact, “adaptive” indistinguishability does not even imply “non-adaptive” semantic security. This is alarming given the large body of work employing (special cases of) the former. We go on to show, however, that in the “non-adaptive” case an equivalence does hold between indistinguishability and semantic security for what we call preimage sampleable schemes. We take this as evidence that for preimage sampleable schemes an indistinguishability based notion may be acceptable in practice. We show that some common functionalities considered in the literature satisfy this requirement.

Generic attacks on secure outsourced databases
Recently, various protocols have been proposed for securely outsourcing database storage to a third party server, ranging from systems with "full-fledged" security based on strong cryptographic primitives such as fully homomorphic encryption or oblivious RAM, to more practical implementations based on searchable symmetric encryption or even on deterministic and order-preserving encryption. On the flip side, various attacks have emerged that show that for some of these protocols confidentiality of the data can be compromised, usually given certain auxiliary information. We take a step back and identify a need for a formal understanding of the inherent efficiency/privacy trade-off in outsourced database systems, independent of the details of the system. We propose abstract models that capture secure outsourced storage systems in sufficient generality, and identify two basic sources of leakage, namely access pattern and ommunication volume. We use our models to distinguish certain classes of outsourced database systems that have been proposed, and deduce that all of them exhibit at least one of these leakage sources. We then develop generic reconstruction attacks on any system supporting range queries where either access pattern or communication volume is leaked. These attacks are in a rather weak passive adversarial model, where the untrusted server knows only the underlying query distribution. In particular, to perform our attack the server need not have any prior knowledge about the data, and need not know any of the issued queries nor their results. Yet, the server can reconstruct the secret attribute of every record in the database after about $N^4$ queries, where N is the domain size. We provide a matching lower bound showing that our attacks are essentially optimal. Our reconstruction attacks using communication volume apply even to systems based on homomorphic encryption or oblivious RAM in the natural way. Finally, we provide experimental results demonstrating the efficacy of our attacks on real datasets with a variety of different features. On all these datasets, after the required number of queries our attacks successfully recovered the secret attributes of every record in at most a few seconds.

On notions of security for deterministic encryption, and efficient constructions without random oracles
Ordered multisignatures and identity-based sequential aggregate signatures, with applications to secure routing
We construct new multiparty signature schemes that allow multiple signers to sequentially produce a compact, fixed-length signature simultaneously attesting to the message(s) they want to sign. First, we introduce a new primitive that we call ordered multisignatures (OMS), which allow signers to attest to a common message as well as the order in which they signed. Our OMS construction substantially improves computational efficiency over any existing scheme with comparable functionality. Second, we design a new identity-based sequential aggregate signature scheme, where signers can attest to different messages and signature verification does not require knowledge of traditional public keys. The latter property permits savings on bandwidth and storage as compared to public-key solutions. In contrast to the only prior scheme to provide this functionality, ours offers improved security that does not rely on synchronized clocks or a trusted first signer. Security proofs according to the corresponding security definitions and under appropriate computational assumptions are provided for all the proposed schemes. We give several applications of our schemes to secure network routing, and we believe that they will find many other applications as well.

Deterministic encryption: Definitional equivalences and constructions without random oracles
Bi-deniable public-key encryption
Instantiability of RSA-OAEP under chosen-plaintext attack
Correlated-input secure hash functions
On the achievability of simulation-based security for functional encryption
A unified approach to deterministic encryption: New constructions and a connection to computational entropy
Modular order-preserving encryption, revisited
Order-preserving encryption (OPE) schemes, whose ciphertexts preserve the natural ordering of the plaintexts, allow efficient range query processing over outsourced encrypted databases without giving the server access to the decryption key. Such schemes have recently received increased interest in both the database and the cryptographic communities. In particular, modular order-preserving encryption (MOPE), due to Boldyreva et al., is a promising extension that increases the security of the basic OPE by introducing a secret modular offset to each data value prior to encrypting it. However, executing range queries via MOPE in a naive way allows the adversary to learn this offset, negating any potential security gains of this approach. In this paper, we systematically address this vulnerability and show that MOPE can be used to build a practical system for executing range queries on encrypted data while providing a significant security improvement over the basic OPE. We introduce two new query execution algorithms for MOPE: our first algorithm is efficient if the user's query distribution is well-spread, while the second scheme is efficient even for skewed query distributions. Interestingly, our second algorithm achieves this efficiency by leaking the least-important bits of the data, whereas OPE is known to leak the most-important bits of the data. We also show that our algorithms can be extended to the case where the query distribution is adaptively learned online. We present new, appropriate security models for MOPE and use them to rigorously analyze the security of our proposed schemes. Finally, we design a system prototype that integrates our schemes on top of an existing database system and apply query optimization methods to execute SQL queries with range predicates efficiently. We provide a performance evaluation of our prototype under a number of different database and query distributions, using both synthetic and real datasets

Provably-secure schemes for basic query support in outsourced databases
In this paper, we take a closer look at the security of outsourced databases (aka Database-as-the-Service or DAS), a topic of emerging importance. DAS allows users to store sensitive data on a remote, untrusted server and retrieve desired parts of it on request. At ﬁrst we focus on basic, exact-match query functionality, and then extend our treatment to preﬁx-matching and, to a more limited extent, range queries as well. We propose several searchable encryption schemes that are not only practical enough for use in DAS in terms of query-processing efﬁciency but also provably-provide privacy and authenticity of data under new deﬁnitions of security that we introduce. The schemes are easy to implement and are based on standard cryptographic primitives such as block ciphers, symmetric encryption schemes, and message authentication codes. As we are some of the ﬁrst to apply the provable-security framework of modern cryptography to this context, we believe our work will help to properly analyze future schemes and facilitate further research on the subject in general.

Adaptive trapdoor functions and chosen-ciphertext security
Semantically-secure functional encryption: Possibility results, impossibility results and the quest for a general definition
Dual form signatures: An approach for proving security from static assumptions
Pairing-Based Cryptography.- Past, Present, and Future.- Some Mathematical Mysteries in Lattices.- Constant-Size Structure-Preserving Signatures: Generic Constructions and Simple Assumptions.- Dual Form Signatures: An Approach for Proving Security from Static Assumptions.- Breaking Pairing-Based Cryptosystems Using etaT Pairing over GF(397).- On the (Im)possibility of Projecting Property in Prime-Order Setting.- Optimal Reductions of Some Decisional Problems to the Rank Problem.- Signature Schemes Secure against Hard-to-Invert Leakage.- Completeness for Symmetric Two-Party Functionalities - Revisited.- Adaptively Secure Garbling with Applications to One-Time Programs and Secure Outsourcing.- The Generalized Randomized Iterate and Its Application to New Efficient Constructions of UOWHFs from Regular One-Way Functions.- Symmetric Cipher Perfect Algebraic Immune Functions.- Differential Analysis of the LED Block Cipher.- PRINCE - A Low-Latency Block Cipher for Pervasive Computing Applications: Extended Abstract.- Analysis of Differential Attacks in ARX Constructions.- Integral and Multidimensional Linear Distinguishers with Correlation Zero.- Differential Attacks against Stream Cipher ZUC.- An Asymptotically Tight Security Analysis of the Iterated Even-Mansour Cipher.- 3kf9: Enhancing 3GPP-MAC beyond the Birthday Bound.- Understanding Adaptivity: Random Systems Revisited.- RKA Security beyond the Linear Barrier: IBE, Encryption and Signatures.- Fully Secure Unbounded Inner-Product and Attribute-Based Encryption.- Computing on Authenticated Data: New Privacy Definitions and Constructions.- A Coding-Theoretic Approach to Recovering Noisy RSA Keys.- Certifying RSA.- Lattice-Based Cryptography and Number Theory Faster Gaussian Lattice Sampling Using Lazy Floating-Point Arithmetic.- Learning a Zonotope and More: Cryptanalysis of NTRUSign Countermeasures.- On Polynomial Systems Arising from a Weil Descent.- ECM at Work.- IND-CCA Secure Cryptography Based on a Variant of the LPN Problem.- Provable Security of the Knudsen-Preneel Compression Functions.- Optimal Collision Security in Double Block Length Hashing with Single Length Key.- Bicliques for Permutations: Collision and Preimage Attacks in Stronger Settings.- Investigating Fundamental Security Requirements on Whirlpool: Improved Preimage and Collision Attacks.- Generic Related-Key Attacks for HMAC.- The Five-Card Trick Can Be Done with Four Cards.- A Mix-Net from Any CCA2 Secure Cryptosystem.- How Not to Prove Yourself: Pitfalls of the Fiat-Shamir Heuristic and Applications to Helios.- Sequential Aggregate Signatureswith Lazy Verification from Trapdoor Permutations (Extended Abstract).- Commitments and Efficient Zero-Knowledge Proofs from Learning Parity with Noise.- Calling Out Cheaters: Covert Security with Public Verifiability.- A Unified Framework for UC from Only OT.- Four-Dimensional Gallant-Lambert-Vanstone Scalar Multiplication.- Shuffling against Side-Channel Attacks: A Comprehensive Study with Cautionary Note.- Theory and Practice of a Leakage Resilient Masking Scheme.

Reducing the leakage in practical order-revealing encryption
We study practical order-revealing encryption (ORE) with a well-defined leakage profile (the information revealed about the plaintexts from their ciphertexts), a direction recently initiated by Chenette, Lewi, Weis, and Wu (CLWW). ORE, which allows public comparison of plaintext order via their ciphertexts, is a useful tool in the design of secure outsourced database systems. We first show a general construction of ORE with reduced leakage as compared to CLWW, by combining ideas from their scheme with a new type of“propertypreserving” hash function. We then show how to construct such a hash function efficiently based on bilinear maps. Our resulting ORE scheme is fairly practical: for n-bit plaintexts, ciphertexts consists of about 4n group elements, and order comparison requires about n pairings. The leakage is, roughly speaking, the “equality pattern” of the mostsignificant differing bits, whereas CLWW’s is the location and values of the most-significant differing bits. We also provide a generalization of our scheme that improves the leakage and/or efficiency. To analyze the quality of our leakage profile, we show several additional results. In particular, we show that orderpreserving (OPE) encryption, an important special case of ORE scheme in which ciphertexts are ordered, cannot be secure wrt. our leakage profile. This implies that our ORE scheme is the first one without multilinear maps that is proven secure wrt. a leakage profile unachievable by OPE. We also also show that our generalized scheme meets a “semantically meaningful” one-wayness notion that schemes with the leakage of CLWW do not.

Accessing data while preserving privacy
As organizations struggle with vast amounts of data, outsourcing sensitive data to third parties becomes a necessity. To protect the data, various cryptographic techniques are used in outsourced database systems to ensure data privacy, while allowing efficient querying. Recent attacks on such systems demonstrate that outsourced database systems must trade-off efficiency and privacy. Towards designing systems that strike a good balance between these two aspects, we present a new model of differentially private outsourced database systems, where differential privacy is preserved at the record level even against an untrusted server that controls data and queries. Beginning with an atomic storage model where the server can observe both the memory access pattern and communication volume, we provide upper- and lower-bounds on the efficiency of differentially private outsourced database systems. Our lower-bounds motivate the examination of models where the memory access pattern is kept hidden from the server. Combining oblivious RAM with differentially private sanitizers, we present a generic construction of differentially private outsourced databases. We have implemented our constructions and report on their efficiency.

DONE