Cache in the air: Exploiting content caching and delivery techniques for 5G systems
The demand for rich multimedia services over mobile networks has been soaring at a tremendous pace over recent years. However, due to the centralized architecture of current cellular networks, the wireless link capacity as well as the bandwidth of the radio access networks and the backhaul network cannot practically cope with the explosive growth in mobile traffic. Recently, we have observed the emergence of promising mobile content caching and delivery techniques, by which popular contents are cached in the intermediate servers (or middleboxes, gateways, or routers) so that demands from users for the same content can be accommodated easily without duplicate transmissions from remote servers; hence, redundant traffic can be significantly eliminated. In this article, we first study techniques related to caching in current mobile networks, and discuss potential techniques for caching in 5G mobile networks, including evolved packet core network caching and radio access network caching. A novel edge caching scheme based on the concept of content-centric networking or information-centric networking is proposed. Using trace-driven simulations, we evaluate the performance of the proposed scheme and validate the various advantages of the utilization of caching content in 5G mobile networks. Furthermore, we conclude the article by exploring new relevant opportunities and challenges.

Network slicing and softwarization: A survey on principles, enabling technologies, and solutions
Network slicing has been identified as the backbone of the rapidly evolving 5G technology. However, as its consolidation and standardization progress, there are no literatures that comprehensively discuss its key principles, enablers, and research challenges. This paper elaborates network slicing from an end-to-end perspective detailing its historical heritage, principal concepts, enabling technologies and solutions as well as the current standardization efforts. In particular, it overviews the diverse use cases and network requirements of network slicing, the pre-slicing era, considering RAN sharing as well as the end-to-end orchestration and management, encompassing the radio access, transport network and the core network. This paper also provides details of specific slicing solutions for each part of the 5G system. Finally, this paper identifies a number of open research challenges and provides recommendations toward potential solutions.

Mobile edge computing potential in making cities smarter
This article proposes an approach to enhance users' experience of video streaming in the context of smart cities. The proposed approach relies on the concept of MEC as a key factor in enhancing QoS. It sustains QoS by ensuring that applications/services follow the mobility of users, realizing the "Follow Me Edge" concept. The proposed scheme enforces an autonomic creation of MEC services to allow anywhere anytime data access with optimum QoE and reduced latency. Considering its application in smart city scenarios, the proposed scheme represents an important solution for reducing core network traffic and ensuring ultra-short latency through a smart MEC architecture capable of achieving the 1 ms latency dream for the upcoming 5G mobile systems.

Toward an improvement of H. 264 video transmission over IEEE 802.11 e through a cross-layer architecture
The recently developed H.264 video standard achieves efficient encoding over a bandwidth ranging from a few kilobits per second to several megabits per second. Hence, transporting H.264 video is expected to be an important component of many wireless multimedia services, such as video conferencing, real-time network gaming, and TV broadcasting. However, due to wireless channel characteristics and lack of QoS support, the basic 802.11-based channel access procedure is merely sufficient to deliver non-real-time traffic. The delivery should be augmented by appropriate mechanisms to better consider different QoS requirements and ultimately adjust the medium access parameters to the video data content characteristics. In this article we address H.264 wireless video transmission over IEEE 802.11 WLAN by proposing a robust cross-layer architecture that leverages the inherent H.264 error resilience tools (i.e., data partitioning); and the existing QoS-based IEEE 802.11e MAC protocol possibilities. The performances of the proposed architecture are extensively investigated by simulations. Results obtained indicate that compared to 802.11 and 802.11e, our cross-layer architecture allows graceful video degradation while minimizing the mean packet loss and end-to-end delays.

Named data networking in vehicular ad hoc networks: State-of-the-art and challenges
Information-centric networking (ICN) has been proposed as one of the future Internet architectures. It is poised to address the challenges faced by today’s Internet that include, but not limited to, scalability, addressing, security, and privacy. Furthermore, it also aims at meeting the requirements for new emerging Internet applications. To realize ICN, named data networking (NDN) is one of the recent implementations of ICN that provides a suitable communication approach due to its clean slate design and simple communication model. There are a plethora of applications realized through ICN in different domains where data is the focal point of communication. One such domain is intelligent transportation system realized through vehicular ad hoc network (VANET) where vehicles exchange information and content with each other and with the infrastructure. Up to date, excellent research results have been yielded in the VANET domain aiming at safe, reliable, and infotainment-rich driving experience. However, due to the dynamic topologies, host-centric model, and ephemeral nature of vehicular communication, various challenges are faced by VANET that hinder the realization of successful vehicular networks and adversely affect the data dissemination, content delivery, and user experiences. To fill these gaps, NDN has been extensively used as underlying communication paradigm for VANET. Inspired by the extensive research results in NDN-based VANET, in this paper, we provide a detailed and systematic review of NDN-driven VANET. More precisely, we investigate the role of NDN in VANET and discuss the feasibility of NDN architecture in VANET environment. Subsequently, we cover in detail, NDN-based naming, routing and forwarding, caching, mobility, and security mechanism for VANET. Furthermore, we discuss the existing standards, solutions, and simulation tools used in NDN-based VANET. Finally, we also identify open challenges and issues faced by NDN-driven VANET and highlight future research directions that should be addressed by the research community.

Follow me cloud: interworking federated clouds and distributed mobile networks
This article introduces the Follow-Me Cloud concept and proposes its framework. The proposed framework is aimed at smooth migration of all or only a required portion of an ongoing IP service between a data center and user equipment of a 3GPP mobile network to another optimal DC with no service disruption. The service migration and continuity is supported by replacing IP addressing with service identification. Indeed, an FMC service/application is identified, upon establishment, by a session/service ID, dynamically changing along with the service being delivered over the session; it consists of a unique identifier of UE within the 3GPP mobile network, an identifier of the cloud service, and dynamically changing characteristics of the cloud service. Service migration in FMC is triggered by change in the IP address of the UE due to a change of data anchor gateway in the mobile network, in turn due to UE mobility and/or for load balancing. An optimal DC is then selected based on the features of the new data anchor gateway. Smooth service migration and continuity are supported thanks to logic installed at UE and DCs that maps features of IP flows to the session/service ID.

Follow-me cloud: When cloud services follow mobile users
The trend towards the cloudification of the 3GPP LTE mobile network architecture and the emergence of federated cloud infrastructures call for alternative service delivery strategies for improved user experience and efficient resource utilization. We propose Follow-Me Cloud (FMC), a design tailored to this environment, but with a broader applicability, which allows mobile users to always be connected via the optimal data anchor and mobility gateways, while cloud-based services follow them and are delivered via the optimal service point inside the cloud infrastructure. Follow-Me Cloud applies a Markov-decision-process-based algorithm for cost-effective performance-optimized service migration decisions, while two alternative schemes to ensure service continuity and disruption-free operation are proposed, based on either software defined networking technologies or the locator/identifier separation protocol. Numerical results from our analytic model for follow-me cloud, as well as testbed experiments with the two alternative follow-me cloud implementations we have developed, demonstrate quantitatively and qualitatively the advantages it can bring about.

Toward enforcing network slicing on RAN: Flexibility and resources abstraction
– Knowing the variety of services and applications to be supported in the upcoming 5G systems, the current “one fits all” network architecture is no more efficient. Indeed, each 5G service may require different needs in term of latency, bandwidth and reliability; which cannot be sustained by the same physical network infrastructure. In this context, network virtualization represents a viable way to provide a Network Slice tailored to each service. Several 5G initiatives (from industry and academia) have been pushing for solutions to enable Network Slicing in mobile networks, mainly based on Software Defined Networking (SDN), Network Function Virtualization (NFV) and cloud computing as key enablers. The proposed architectures focus principally on the process of instantiating and deploying the Network Slices, while ignoring how they are enforced in the mobile network. Whilst several techniques of slicing the network infrastructure exist, slicing the Radio Access Network (RAN) is still challenging. In this paper, we propose a new framework to enforce Network Slices, featuring radio resources abstraction. The proposed framework is complementary to the ongoing solutions of Network Slicing, and fully compliant with the 3GPP vision. Indeed, our contributions are twofold: a fully programmable Network Slicing architecture based on the 3GPP Dedicated Core Network (DCN) and a Flexible RAN (i.e. programmable RAN) to enforce Network Slicing; a two-level MAC scheduler to abstract and share the physical resources among Slices. Finally, a proof of concept on RAN slicing has been developed on top of OpenAirInterface (OAI) to derive key performance results; focusing on the flexibility and dynamicity of the proposed architecture to share the RAN resources among Slices.

A Markov decision process-based service migration procedure for follow me cloud
The Follow-Me Cloud (FMC) concept enables service mobility across federated data centers (DCs). Following the mobility of a mobile user, the service located in a given DC is migrated each time an optimal DC is detected. The detailed criterion for optimality is defined by operator policy, but it may be typically derived from geographical proximity or load. Service migration may be an expensive operation given the incurred cost in terms of signaling messages and data transferred between DCs. Decision on service migration defines therefore a tradeoff between cost and user perceived quality. In this paper, we address this tradeoff by modeling the service migration procedure using a Markov Decision Process (MDP). The aim is to formulate a decision policy that determines whether to migrate a service or not when the concerned User Equipment (UE) is at a certain distance from the source DC. We numerically formulate the decision policies and compare the proposed approach against the baseline counterpart.

Improving traffic forecasting for 5G core network scalability: A machine learning approach
5G is expected to provide network connectivity to not only classical devices (i.e., tablets, smartphones, etc.) but also to the IoT, which will drastically increase the traffic load carried over the network. 5G will mainly rely on NFV and SDN to build flexible and on-demand instances of functional networking entities via VNFs. Indeed, 3GPP is devising a new architecture for the core network, which replaces point-to-point interfaces used in 3G and 4G by producer/consumer-based communication among 5G core network functions, facilitating deployment over a virtual infrastructure. One big advantage of using VNFs is the possibility of dynamic scaling, depending on traffic load (i.e., instantiate new resources to VNFs when the traffic load increases and reduce the number of resources when the traffic load decreases). In this article, we propose a novel mechanism to scale 5G core network resources by anticipating traffic load changes through forecasting via ML techniques. The traffic load forecast is achieved by using and training a neural network on a real dataset of traffic arrival in a mobile network. Two techniques were used and compared: RNN, more specifically LSTM; and DNN. Simulation results show that the forecast-based scalability mechanism outperforms the threshold-based solutions, in terms of latency to react to traffic change, and delay to have new resources ready to be used by the VNF to react to traffic increase.

Federated learning for UAVs-enabled wireless networks: Use cases, challenges, and open problems
The use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) for wireless networks is rapidly growing as key enablers of new applications, including: surveillance and monitoring, military, delivery of medical supplies, telecommunications, etc. In particular, due to their unique proprieties such as flexibility, mobility, and adaptive altitude, UAVs can act as mobile base stations to improve capacity, coverage, and energy efficiency of wireless networks. On the other hand, UAVs can operate as mobile terminals to enable many applications such as item delivery and real-time video streaming. In such context, data-driven Deep Learning-assisted (DL) approaches are gaining a growing interest to not only exploit the huge amount of generated data, but also to optimize the network operations, and hence ensure the QoS requirements of these emerging wireless networks. However, UAVs are resource-constrained devices especially in terms of computing and power resources, and traditional DL-assisted schemes are cloud-centric, which require UAVs’ data to be sent and stored in a centralized server. This represents a critical issue since it generates a huge network communication overhead to send raw data towards the centralized entity, and hence may lead to network bandwidth and energy inefficiency of UAV devices. In addition, the transferred data may contain personnel data such as UAVs’ localization and identity, which can directly affect UAVs’ privacy concerns. As a solution, Federated Deep Learning (FDL), or distributed DL, was introduced, where the basic idea is to keep raw data where it is generated, while sending only users’ local trained DL models to the centralized entity for aggregation. Due to its privacy-preserving and low communication overhead and latency, FDL is much more adequate for many UAVs-enabled wireless applications. In this work, we provide a general introduction of FDL application for UAV-enabled wireless networks. We first introduce the FDL concept and its fundamentals. Then, we highlight the possible applications of FDL in UAVs-enabled wireless networks by addressing the suitability and how to use FDL to deal with target challenges. Finally, we discuss about key technical challenges, open issues, and future research directions on FDL-based approaches in such context.

Quality of experience measurements for video streaming over wireless networks
As wireless networks have been increasingly deployed, the need of quality measurement became essential since network operators want to control their network resources while maintaining user satisfaction. More importantly, measurement of technical parameters fails to give an account of the user experience, what could be named QoE (Quality of Experience). Therefore, many techniques have been developed in order to assess as accurately as possible this perceptual quality. To investigate QoE measurement, this paper presents three approaches namely subjective approach, objective approach, and hybrid approach. It also presents performance evaluation of these approaches for assessing QoE in video streaming application over wireless networks in different network conditions (using variation of loss rate and its distribution). We focus more specifically on a hybrid approach called Pseudo Subjective Quality Assessment (PSQA) that keeps advantages of both subjective and objective schemes while minimizing their drawbacks. We demonstrate that this approach provides good estimations comparing to the well-known objective metric called Peak Signal to Noise Ratio (PSNR). We also observe that PSQA gives similar result comparing to subjective test that has been evaluated by human observers in most of the cases. Moreover, one objective of this evaluation is to validate PSQA for QoE measurement, which will facilitate the use of QoE as metric for resource management in the future. For that, we also give some possible directions allowing us to manage network resources using this metric.

On enabling 5G automotive systems using follow me edge-cloud concept
One of the key targets of the upcoming 5G system is to build a mobile network architecture that supports not only classical mobile broadband applications (i.e., Internet and IMS), but also vertical industry services, such as those of automotive systems, e-health, public safety, and smart grid. Vertical industry is known to have specific needs that cannot be sustained by the current cellular networks. More notably, automotive systems require strict quality of service in terms of ultrashort latency for vehicle-to-infrastructure/network (V2I/N) communications. In this paper, we introduce the Follow Me edge-Cloud (FMeC) concept, leveraging the mobile edge computing (MEC) architecture to sustain requirements of the 5G automotive systems. Assuming that automotive services are deployed on MEC entities, FMeC ensures low-latency access to these services by guaranteeing that vehicles (i.e., as well as user equipment on board vehicles) always connect to nearest automotive service. Besides the FMeC architecture, our contribution in this paper consists in presenting a projection of the FMeC solution on an automated driving use case that integrates automotive and Telco infrastructures, to realize the vision of future 5G automotive systems. We introduce the envisioned software defined networking/OpenFlow-based architecture and our mobility-aware framework based on a set of building blocks that permit achieving the automated driving requirements within 5G network. The evaluation results, obtained conjointly through theoretical analysis and computer simulation, show that our proposed solution outperforms baseline approaches in meeting the automated driving latency requirement and minimizing the incurred global cost.

Network slices toward 5G communications: Slicing the LTE network
The upcoming 5G ecosystem is envisioned to build business-driven network slices to accommodate the different needs of divergent service types, applications, and services in support of vertical industries. In this article, we describe the network slicing concept by unveiling a novel network slicing architecture for integrated 5G communications. Further, we demonstrate its realization for the case of evolved LTE using state-of-the-art technologies. Finally, we elaborate on the LTE-specific requirements toward 5G, and point out existing challenges and open issues.

An analytical model for follow me cloud
This paper introduces an analytical model for the Follow-Me Cloud (FMC) concept whereby service mobility is enabled across data centers following the mobility of a mobile user. Given a network and cloud setup and a mobility pattern of a mobile user, the proposed analytical model provides the performance of the FMC concept related to: (i) the user experience with the service (such as: UE average distance from the optimal DC, average end-to-end delay, service disruption duration); and (ii) to the cloud/mobile operator (such as the service migration cost). Obtained results are encouraging. They confirm the advantage of the FMC concept, but stress the need for careful consideration when triggering the service migration.

Radio resource management in emerging heterogeneous wireless networks
User mobility-aware virtual network function placement for virtual 5G network infrastructure
Cloud offerings represent a promising solution for mobile network operators to cope with the surging mobile traffic. The concept of carrier cloud has therefore emerged as an important topic of inquiry. For a successful carrier cloud, algorithms for optimal placement of Virtual Network Functions (VNFs) on federated cloud are of crucial importance. In this paper, we introduce different VNF placement algorithms for carrier cloud with two main design goals: i) minimizing path between users and their respective data anchor gateways and ii) optimizing their sessions' mobility. The two design goals effectively represent two conflicting objectives, that we deal with considering the mobility features and service usage behavioral patterns of mobile users, in addition to the mobile operators' cost in terms of the total number of instantiated VNFs to build a Virtual Network Infrastructure (VNI). Different solutions are evaluated based on different metrics and encouraging results are obtained.

Service-aware network function placement for efficient traffic handling in carrier cloud
Carrier Cloud is a promising concept towards the decentralization of mobile networks, to, in turn, alleviate mobile traffic load and reduce mobile operator cost. Carrier cloud is enabled by two main approaches, namely virtualization of the mobile network functions and networking over federated cloud. For intelligent carrier cloud dimensioning, the placement of mobile network functions over federated cloud is of vital importance. In this vein, this paper argues the need for adopting service/application type and requirements as metrics for (i) creating virtual instances of the Packet Data Network Gateways (PDN-GW) and (ii) selecting adequate virtual PDN-GWs for User Equipment receiving specific application type. After modeling this procedure as a nonlinear Optimization Problem and proving it as a NP-hard problem, we propose three solutions to solve it. The proposed solutions are evaluated through computer simulations and encouraging results are obtained.

5G-slicing-enabled scalable SDN core network: Toward an ultra-low latency of autonomous driving service
5G networks are anticipated to support a plethora of innovative and promising network services. These services have heterogeneous performance requirements (e.g., high-rate traffic, low latency, and high reliability). To meet them, 5G networks are entailed to endorse flexibility that can be fulfilled through the deployment of new emerging technologies, mainly software-defined networking (SDN), network functions virtualization (NFV), and network slicing. In this paper, we focus on an interesting automotive vertical use case: autonomous vehicles. Our aim is to enhance the quality of service of autonomous driving application. To this end, we design a framework that uses the aforementioned technologies to enhance the quality of service of the autonomous driving application. The framework is made of 1) a distributed and scalable SDN core network architecture that deploys fog, edge and cloud computing technologies; 2) a network slicing function that maps autonomous driving functionalities into service slices; and 3) a network and service slicing system model that promotes a four-layer logical architecture to improve the transmission efficiency and satisfy the low latency constraint. In addition, we present a theoretical analysis of the propagation delay and the handling latency based on GI/M/1 queuing system. Simulation results show that our framework meets the low-latency requirement of the autonomous driving application as it incurs low propagation delay and handling latency for autonomous driving traffic compared to best-effort traffic.

Latency and availability driven VNF placement in a MEC-NFV environment
Multi-access Edge Computing (MEC) is gaining momentum as it is considered as one of the enablers of 5G ultra-Reliable Low-Latency Communications (uRLLC) services. MEC deploys computation resources close to the end user, enabling to reduce drastically the end-to-end latency. ETSI has recently leveraged the MEC architecture to run all MEC entities, including MEC applications, as Virtual Network Functions (VNF) in a Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) environment. This evolution allows taking advantage of the mature architecture and the enabling tools of NFV, including the potential to apply a variety of service-tailored function placement algorithms. However, the latter need to be carefully designed in case of MEC applications such as uRLLC, where service access latency is critical. In this paper, we propose a novel placement scheme applicable to a MEC in NFV environment. In particular, we propose a formulation of the problem of VNF placement tailored to uRLLC as an optimization problem of two conflicting objectives, namely minimizing access latency and maximizing service availability. To deal with the complexity of the problem, we propose a Genetic Algorithm to solve it, which we compare with a CPLEX implementation of our model. Our numerical results show that our heuristic algorithm runs efficiently and produces solutions that approximate well the optimal, reducing latency and providing a highly-available service.

DONE