Bayesian inference for nonnegative matrix factorisation models
We describe nonnegative matrix factorisation (NMF) with a Kullback-Leibler (KL) error measure in a statistical framework, with a hierarchical generative model consisting of an observation and a prior component. Omitting the prior leads to the standard KL-NMF algorithms as special cases, where maximum likelihood parameter estimation is carried out via the Expectation-Maximisation (EM) algorithm. Starting from this view, we develop full Bayesian inference via variational Bayes or Monte Carlo. Our construction retains conjugacy and enables us to develop more powerful models while retaining attractive features of standard NMF such as monotonic convergence and easy implementation. We illustrate our approach on model order selection and image reconstruction.

Bayesian time series models
One of the common goals of time series analysis is to use the observed series to inform predictions for future observations. In the absence of any actual new data to predict, cross-validation can be used to estimate a model's future predictive accuracy, for instance, for the purpose of model comparison or selection. Exact cross-validation for Bayesian models is often computationally expensive, but approximate cross-validation methods have been developed, most notably methods for leave-one-out cross-validation (LOO-CV). If the actual prediction task is to predict the future given the past, LOO-CV provides an overly optimistic estimate because the information from future observations is available to influence predictions of the past. To properly account for the time series structure, we can use leave-future-out cross-validation (LFO-CV). Like exact LOO-CV, exact LFO-CV requires refitting the model many times to different subsets of the data. Using Pareto smoothed importance sampling, we propose a method for approximating exact LFO-CV that drastically reduces the computational costs while also providing informative diagnostics about the quality of the approximation.

On tempo tracking: Tempogram representation and Kalman filtering
We formulate tempo tracking in a Bayesian framework where a tempo tracker is modeled as a stochastic dynamical system. The tempo is modeled as a hidden state variable of the system and is estimated by a Kalman filter. The Kalman filter operates on a Tempogram, a wavelet-like multiscale expansion of a real performance. An important advantage of our approach is that it is possible to formulate both off-line or real-time algorithms. The simulation results on a systematically collected set of MIDI piano performances of Yesterday and Michelle by the Beatles shows accurate tracking of approximately 90% of the beats.

Contrastive training for improved out-of-distribution detection
Reliable detection of out-of-distribution (OOD) inputs is increasingly understood to be a precondition for deployment of machine learning systems. This paper proposes and investigates the use of contrastive training to boost OOD detection performance. Unlike leading methods for OOD detection, our approach does not require access to examples labeled explicitly as OOD, which can be difficult to collect in practice. We show in extensive experiments that contrastive training significantly helps OOD detection performance on a number of common benchmarks. By introducing and employing the Confusion Log Probability (CLP) score, which quantifies the difficulty of the OOD detection task by capturing the similarity of inlier and outlier datasets, we show that our method especially improves performance in the `near OOD' classes -- a particularly challenging setting for previous methods.

Bayesian extensions to non-negative matrix factorisation for audio signal modelling
We describe the underlying probabilistic generative signal model of non-negative matrix factorisation (NMF) and propose a realistic conjugate priors on the matrices to be estimated. A conjugate Gamma chain prior enables modelling the spectral smoothness of natural sounds in general, and other prior knowledge about the spectra of the sounds can be used without resorting to too restrictive techniques where some of the parameters are fixed. The resulting algorithm, while retaining the attractive features of standard NMF such as fast convergence and easy implementation, outperforms existing NMF strategies in a single channel audio source separation and detection task.

A fine-grained analysis on distribution shift
Robustness to distribution shifts is critical for deploying machine learning models in the real world. Despite this necessity, there has been little work in defining the underlying mechanisms that cause these shifts and evaluating the robustness of algorithms across multiple, different distribution shifts. To this end, we introduce a framework that enables fine-grained analysis of various distribution shifts. We provide a holistic analysis of current state-of-the-art methods by evaluating 19 distinct methods grouped into five categories across both synthetic and real-world datasets. Overall, we train more than 85K models. Our experimental framework can be easily extended to include new methods, shifts, and datasets. We find, unlike previous work~\citep{Gulrajani20}, that progress has been made over a standard ERM baseline; in particular, pretraining and augmentations (learned or heuristic) offer large gains in many cases. However, the best methods are not consistent over different datasets and shifts.

A generative model for music transcription
In this paper, we present a graphical model for polyphonic music transcription. Our model, formulated as a dynamical Bayesian network, embodies a transparent and computationally tractable approach to this acoustic analysis problem. An advantage of our approach is that it places emphasis on explicitly modeling the sound generation procedure. It provides a clear framework in which both high level (cognitive) prior information on music structure can be coupled with low level (acoustic physical) information in a principled manner to perform the analysis. The model is a special case of the, generally intractable, switching Kalman filter model. Where possible, we derive, exact polynomial time inference procedures, and otherwise efficient approximations. We argue that our generative model based approach is computationally feasible for many music applications and is readily extensible to more general auditory scene analysis scenarios.

Link prediction in heterogeneous data via generalized coupled tensor factorization
Nonnegative matrix factorizations as probabilistic inference in composite models
We develop an interpretation of nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) methods based on Euclidean distance, Kullback-Leibler and Itakura-Saito divergences in a probabilistic framework. We describe how these factorizations are implicit in a well-defined statistical model of superimposed components, either Gaussian or Poisson distributed, and are equivalent to maximum likelihood estimation of either mean, variance or intensity parameters. By treating the components as hidden-variables, NMF algorithms can be derived in a typical data augmentation setting. This setting can in particular accommodate regularization constraints on the matrix factors through Bayesian priors. We describe multiplicative, Expectation-Maximization, Markov chain Monte Carlo and Variational Bayes algorithms for the NMF problem. This paper describes in a unified framework both new and known algorithms and aims at providing statistical insights to NMF.

Monte Carlo methods for tempo tracking and rhythm quantization
We present a probabilistic generative model for timing deviations in expressive music performance. The structure of the proposed model is equivalent to a switching state space model. The switch variables correspond to discrete note locations as in a musical score. The continuous hidden variables denote the tempo. We formulate two well known music recognition problems, namely tempo tracking and automatic transcription (rhythm quantization) as filtering and maximum a posteriori (MAP) state estimation tasks. Exact computation of posterior features such as the MAP state is intractable in this model class, so we introduce Monte Carlo methods for integration and optimization. We compare Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods (such as Gibbs sampling, simulated annealing and iterative improvement) and sequential Monte Carlo methods (particle filters). Our simulation results suggest better results with sequential methods. The methods can be applied in both online and batch scenarios such as tempo tracking and transcription and are thus potentially useful in a number of music applications such as adaptive automatic accompaniment, score typesetting and music information retrieval.

Rhythm quantization for transcription
Automatic Music Transcription is the extraction of an acceptable notation from performed music. One important task in this problem is rhythm quantization which refers to categorization of note durations. Although quantization of a pure mechanical performance is rather straightforward, the task becomes increasingly difficult in presence of musical expression, i.e. systematic variations in timing of notes and tempo changes. For quantization of natural performances, we employ a framework based on Bayesian statistics. We demonstrate that some simple quantization schemata can be derived in this framework by simple assumptions about timing deviations. A general quantization method, which can be derived in this framework, is vector quantization (VQ). The algorithm operates on short groups of onsets and is thus flexible in capturing the structure of timing deviations between neighboring onsets and thus performs better than simple rounding methods. Finally, we present some results on simple examples.

Morphology of the mandibular fossa and inclination of the articular eminence in patients with internal derangement and in symptom-free volunteers
OBJECTIVE
The purpose of this study was to evaluate temporomandibular joint morphology and to compare possible structural variations in the temporomandibular joint anatomy of symptomatic anterior disk displacement patients with possible structural variations in the temporomandibular joint anatomy of symptom-free volunteers.


STUDY DESIGN
Fifty-six symptomatic patients and 25 symptom-free volunteers were included in this study. All subjects had bilateral high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging scans performed in the sagittal (closed and open) positions. Disk positions were evaluated with these images, and the patients were accordingly classified into 4 diagnostic groups. The angulation between the Frankfort horizontal plane and the posterior slope of the articular eminence, as well as the width and depth of the glenoid fossa and the articular tuberculum, were automatically measured with the aid of a computer.


RESULTS
The Mann-Whitney U test demonstrated significant differences in the angular and linear values obtained in disk displacement with reduction patients in comparison with the values obtained in patients with disk displacement without reduction and in symptom-free volunteers.


CONCLUSION
It is proposed that a steeper posterior slope and higher tuberculum articulaire are predisposing factors for the development of disk displacement with reduction. Flattening of the eminence may progress in time, leading to the onset of disk displacement without reduction.

Importance sampling for model-based reinforcement learning
Most of the state-of-the-art reinforcement learning algorithms are based on Bellman equations and make use of fixed-point iteration methods to converge to suboptimal solutions. However, some of the recent approaches transform the reinforcement learning problem into an equivalent likelihood maximization problem with using appropriate graphical models. Hence, it allows the adoption of probabilistic inference methods. Here, we propose an expectation-maximization method that employs importance sampling in its E-step in order to estimate the likelihood and then to determine the optimal policy.

Generalised coupled tensor factorisation
We derive algorithms for generalised tensor factorisation (GTF) by building upon the well-established theory of Generalised Linear Models. Our algorithms are general in the sense that we can compute arbitrary factorisations in a message passing framework, derived for a broad class of exponential family distributions including special cases such as Tweedie's distributions corresponding to β-divergences. By bounding the step size of the Fisher Scoring iteration of the GLM, we obtain general updates for real data and multiplicative updates for non-negative data. The GTF framework is, then extended easily to address the problems when multiple observed tensors are factorised simultaneously. We illustrate our coupled factorisation approach on synthetic data as well as on a musical audio restoration problem.

Faster sorting algorithms discovered using deep reinforcement learning
Model-based localization and tracking using bluetooth low-energy beacons
We introduce a high precision localization and tracking method that makes use of cheap Bluetooth low-energy (BLE) beacons only. We track the position of a moving sensor by integrating highly unreliable and noisy BLE observations streaming from multiple locations. A novel aspect of our approach is the development of an observation model, specifically tailored for received signal strength indicator (RSSI) fingerprints: a combination based on the optimal transport model of Wasserstein distance. The tracking results of the entire system are compared with alternative baseline estimation methods, such as nearest neighboring fingerprints and an artificial neural network. Our results show that highly accurate estimation from noisy Bluetooth data is practically feasible with an observation model based on Wasserstein distance interpolation combined with the sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) method for tracking.

Does your dermatology classifier know what it doesn’t know? detecting the long-tail of unseen conditions
Bayesian music transcription
Music transcription refers to extraction of a human readable and interpretable description from a recording of a music performance. The final goal is to implement a program that can automatically infer a musical notation that lists the pitch levels of notes and corresponding score positions in any arbitrary acoustical input. However, in this full generality, music transcription stays yet as a very hard problem and is arguably ``AI-complete'', i.e. requires simulation of a human level intelligence. On the other hand, under some realistic assumptions, a practical engineering solution is possible by an interplay of scientific knowledge from cognitive science, musicology, musical acoustics and computational techniques from artificial intelligence, machine learning and digital signal processing. In this context, the aim of this thesis is to integrate this vast amount of prior knowledge in a consistent and transparent computational framework and to demonstrate the feasibility of such an approach in moving us closer to a practical solution to music transcription. In this thesis, we approach music transcription as a statistical inference problem where given a signal, we search for a score that is consistent with the encoded music. In this context, we identify three subproblems: Rhythm Quantization, Tempo Tracking and Polyphonic Pitch Tracking. For each subproblem, we define a probabilistic generative model, that relates the observables (i.e. onsets or audio signal) with the underlying score. Conceptually, the transcription task is then to 'invert' this generative model by using the Bayes Theorem and recover back the original score

Graphical models for time-series
Time-series analysis is central to many problems in signal processing, including acoustics, image processing, vision, tracking, information retrieval, and finance, to name a few. Because of the wide base of application areas, having a common description of the models is useful in transferring ideas between the various communities. Graphical models provide a compact way to represent such models and thereby rapidly transfer ideas. We will discuss briefly how classical timeseries models such as Kalman filters and hidden Markov models (HMMs) can be represented as graphical models and critically how this representation differs from other common graphical representations such as state-transition and block diagrams. We will use this framework to show how one may easily envisage novel models and gain insight into their computational implementation.

Bayesian Modelling of Temporal Structure in Musical Audio.
This paper presents a probabilistic model of temporal structure in music which allows joint inference of tempo, meter and rhythmic pattern. The framework of the model naturally quantifies these three musical concepts in terms of hidden state-variables, allowing resolution of otherwise apparent ambiguities in musical structure. At the heart of the system is a probabilistic model of a hypothetical ‘bar-pointer’ which maps an input signal to one cycle of a latent, periodic rhythmical pattern. The system flexibly accommodates different input signals via two observation models: a Poisson points model for use with MIDI onset data and a Gaussian process model for use with raw audio signals. The discrete state-space permits exact computation of posterior probability distributions for the quantities of interest. Results are presented for both observation models, demonstrating the ability of the system to correctly detect changes in rhythmic pattern and meter, whilst tracking tempo.

DONE