Power spectral clustering
Iterated watersheds, a connected variation of k-means for clustering GIS data
In this article, we propose a novel algorithm to obtain a solution to the clustering problem with an additional constraint of connectivity. This is achieved by suitably modifying K-Means algorithm to include connectivity constraints. The modified algorithm involves repeated application of watershed transform, and hence is referred to as iterated watersheds. Detailed analysis of the algorithm is performed using toy examples. Iterated watersheds is compared with several image segmentation algorithms. It has been shown that iterated watersheds performs better than methods such as spectral clustering, isoperimetric partitioning, and K-Means on various measures. To illustrate the applicability of iterated watersheds - a simple problem of placing emergency stations and suitable cost function is considered. Using real world road networks of various cities, iterated watersheds is compared with K-Means and greedy K-center methods. It is observed that iterated watersheds result in 4 - 66 percent improvement over K-Means and in 31 - 72 percent improvement over Greedy K-Centers in experiments on road networks of various cities.

Extending k-means to preserve spatial connectivity
Clustering is one of the most important steps in the data processing pipeline. Of all the clustering techniques, perhaps the most widely used technique is K-Means. However, K-Means does not necessarily result in clusters which are spatially connected and hence the technique remains unusable for several remote sensing, geoscience and geographic information science (GISci) data. In this article, we propose an extension of K-Means algorithm which results in spatially connected clusters. We empirically verify that this indeed is true and use the proposed algorithm to obtain most significant group of waterbodies mapped from multispectral image acquired by IRS LISS-III satellite.

Watersheds for Semi-Supervised Classification
Watershed technique from mathematical morphology (MM) is one of the most widely used operators for image segmentation. Recently watersheds are adapted to edge weighted graphs, allowing for wider applicability. However, a few questions remain to be answered – How do the boundaries of the watershed operator behave? Which loss function does the watershed operator optimize? How does watershed operator relate with existing ideas from machine learning. In this letter, a framework is developed, which allows one to answer these questions. This is achieved by generalizing the maximum margin principle to maximum margin partition and proposing a generic solution, morphMedian, resulting in the maximum margin principle. It is then shown that watersheds form a particular class of morphMedian classifiers. Using the ensemble technique, watersheds are also extended to ensemble watersheds. These techniques are compared with relevant methods from the literature and it is shown that watersheds perform better than support vector machines on some datasets, and ensemble watersheds usually outperform random forest classifiers.

Some Properties of Interpolations Using Mathematical Morphology
The Problem of interpolation between two images is defined as - given two images, one at time <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$t=0$ </tex-math></inline-formula> and another at <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$t=T$ </tex-math></inline-formula>, one must estimate the series of intermediate images for all intermediate time steps. This problem is not well posed, in the sense that without further constraints, there are many possible solutions. The solution is thus usually dictated by the choice of the constraints/assumptions, which in turn relies on the domain of application. In this article, we follow the approach of obtaining a solution to the interpolation problem using the operators from mathematical morphology (MM). These operators have an advantage of preserving structures since the operators are defined on sets. In this paper, we explore the solutions obtained using MM, and provide several results along with proofs which corroborates the validity of the assumptions, provide links among existing methods and intuition about them. We also summarize few possible extensions and prospective problems of current interest.

Power Tree Filter: A Theoretical Framework Linking Shortest Path Filters and Minimum Spanning Tree Filters
An introduction to Gamma-convergence for spectral clustering
Band Selection Using Dilation Distances
In this letter, we adapt the dilation operator from mathematical morphology to propose dilation distances. These dilation distances are then used for band selection in hyperspectral images. It is shown that dilation distances between bands can capture the spatial distance between the objects. Hence, using dilation-based distances would select those bands which identify spatially separated objects. This is illustrated using both toy and real data sets. Furthermore, we compare the proposed approach with existing methods and show empirically that dilation-distance-based band selection provided competitive results outperforming several methods.

Morphological interpolation for temporal changes
The problem of interpolation of images is defined as - given two images at time t = 0 and t = T, one must find the series of images for the intermediate time. This problem is not well posed, in the sense that without further constraints, there might be many solutions possible. We thus focus on the interpolation problem with respect to problems in geoscience and remote sensing. Mathematical Morphology (MM) can be considered as the theory of non-linear operators on images. The aim of this article is to review the techniques of morphological interpolation, compare the various techniques and observe its implications on a problem in geoscience and remote Sensing. Also, we provide a new approach combining ideas from the other methods and compare them to the original morphological interpolation methods. Application of these methods are shown on the RADARSAT images of pre and post flood images of the Mekong river.

Some theoretical links between shortest path filters and minimum spanning tree filters
Revisiting the Isoperimetric Graph Partitioning Problem
Isoperimetric graph partitioning, which is also known as the Cheeger cut, is NP-hard in its original form. In the literature, multiple modifications to this problem have been proposed to obtain approximation algorithms for clustering applications. In the context of image segmentation, a heuristic continuous relaxation to this problem introduced by Leo Grady and Eric L. Schwartz has yielded good quality results. This algorithm is based on solving a linear system of equations involving the Laplacian of the image graph. Furthermore, the same algorithm applied to a maximum spanning tree (MST) of the image graph was shown to produce similar results at a much lesser computational cost. However, the data reduction step (i.e., considering an MST, a much sparser graph compared to the original graph) leading to a faster yet useful algorithm has not been analyzed. In this paper, we revisit the isoperimetric graph partitioning problem and rectify a few discrepancies in the simplifications of the heuristic continuous relaxation, leading to a better interpretation of what is really done by this algorithm. We then use the power watershed (PW) framework to show that is enough to solve the relaxed isoperimetric graph partitioning problem on the graph induced by the union of MSTs (UMST) with a seed constraint. The UMST has a lesser number of edges compared to the original graph, thus improving the speed of sparse matrix multiplication. Furthermore, given the interest of PW framework in solving the relaxed seeded isoperimetric partitioning problem, we discuss the links between the PW limit of the discrete isoperimetric graph partitioning and watershed cuts. We then illustrate with experiments, a detailed comparison of solutions to the relaxed seeded isoperimetric partitioning problem on the original graph with the ones on the UMST and an MST. Our study opens many research directions, which are discussed in the conclusion section.

A morphology-based approach for cloud detection
The aim of this paper is to present a simple and robust morphology-based approach to detect clouds in remote sensing images based on a single band. The algorithm generates for every pixel, a possibility value of not being a cloud pixel and thus provides an additional advantage over hard classification of pixels for further processing of these images. We have validated the performance of our algorithm on Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) images and established its superiority over the results obtained by thresholding techniques in presence of noise such as clouds in presence of ice land cover.

Higher-Order Relations Skew Link Prediction in Graphs
The problem of link prediction is of active interest. The main approach to solving the link prediction problem is based on heuristics such as Common Neighbors (CN) -- more number of common neighbors of a pair of nodes implies a higher chance of them getting linked. In this article, we investigate this problem in the presence of higher-order relations. Surprisingly, it is found that CN works very well, and even better in the presence of higher-order relations. However, as we prove in the current work, this is due to the CN-heuristic overestimating its prediction abilities in the presence of higher-order relations. This statement is proved by considering a theoretical model for higher-order relations and by showing that AUC scores of CN are higher than can be achieved from the model. Theoretical justification in simple cases is also provided. Further, we extend our observations to other similar link prediction algorithms such as Adamic Adar. Finally, these insights are used to propose an adjustment factor by taking into conscience that a random graph would only have a best AUC score of 0.5. This adjustment factor allows for a better estimation of generalization scores.

Power spectral clustering on hyperspectral data
Classification of remotely sensed data is an important task for many practical applications. However, it is not always possible to get the ground truth for supervised learning methods. Thus unsupervised methods form a valuable tool in such situations. Such methods are referred to as clustering methods. There exists several strategies for clustering the given data — K-means, density based methods, spectral clustering etc. Recently we proposed a novel method for clustering data — Power Spectral Clustering. In this article we aim to introduce the method in the context of Geoscience and Remote Sensing, apply the method to hyperspectral data and validate its applicability to remotely sensed images.

ESW Edge Weights: Ensemble Stochastic Watershed Edge Weights for Hyperspectral Image Classification
Hyperspectral image (HSI) classification is a topic of active research. One of the main challenges of HSI classification is the lack of reliable labeled samples. Various semi-supervised and unsupervised classification methods are proposed to handle the low number of labeled samples. Chief among them are graph convolution networks (GCNs) and their variants. These approaches exploit the graph structure for semi-supervised and unsupervised classification. While several of these methods implicitly construct edge weights, to the best of our knowledge, not much work has been done to estimate the edge weights explicitly. In this letter, we estimate the edge weights explicitly and use them for the downstream classification tasks—both semi-supervised and unsupervised. The proposed edge weights are based on two key insights: 1) ensembles reduce the variance and 2) classes in HSI datasets and feature similarity have only one-sided implications. That is, while the same classes would have similar features, similar features do not necessarily imply the same classes. Exploiting these, we estimate the edge weights using an aggregate of ensembles of watersheds over subsamples of features. These edge weights are evaluated for both semi-supervised and unsupervised classification tasks. The evaluation for semi-supervised tasks uses a random-walk (RW)-based approach. For the unsupervised case, we use a simple filter using a GCN. In both these cases, the proposed edge weights outperform the traditional approaches to compute edge weights—Euclidean distances and cosine similarities. Fascinatingly, with the proposed edge weights, the simplest GCN obtained results comparable to the recent state of the art.

A tutorial on applications of power watershed optimization to image processing
A Robust Morphological Approach for Semantic Segmentation of Very High Resolution Images
State-of-the-art methods for semantic segmentation of images involve computationally intensive neural network architectures. Most of these methods are not adaptable to high-resolution image segmentation due to memory and other computational issues. Typical approaches in literature involve design of neural network architectures that can fuse global information from low-resolution images and local information from the high-resolution counterparts. However, architectures designed for processing high resolution images are unnecessarily complex and involve a lot of hyper parameters that can be difficult to tune. Also, most of these architectures require ground truth annotations of the high resolution images to train, which can be hard to obtain. In this article, we develop a robust pipeline based on mathematical morphological (MM) operators that can seamlessly extend any existing semantic segmentation algorithm to high resolution images. Our method does not require the ground truth annotations of the high resolution images. It is based on efficiently utilizing information from the low-resolution counterparts, and gradient information on the high-resolution images. We obtain high quality seeds from the inferred labels on low-resolution images using traditional morphological operators and propagate seed labels using a random walker to refine the semantic labels at the boundaries. We show that the semantic segmentation results obtained by our method beat the existing state-of-the-art algorithms on high-resolution images. We empirically prove the robustness of our approach to the hyper parameters used in our pipeline. Further, we characterize some necessary conditions under which our pipeline is applicable and provide an in-depth analysis of the proposed approach.

(POSTER) Insights from Executing TinyML Models on Smartphones and Microcontrollers
In this paper, we empirically compare the system-level performances of executing a machine learning task on a resource-constrained IoT device and compare its performance to offloading the task to a more capable device, a smartphone. Our results indicate that although the resource-constrained device cannot run complex machine learning models, they can provide reasonable accuracy using similar models that can load on their memory. For running simpler models on the microcontroller, the best case accuracy for the machine learning task was 94.32% (SD: 1.7%). Furthermore, local computation resulted in almost 50% lesser current draw as compared to the offloading. These observations make a case for adopting an adaptive approach to ensure that applications meet the energy-accuracy-latency balance.

Decoupling Quantile Representations from Loss Functions
Many tasks performed in image-guided procedures can be cast as pose estimation problems, where specific projections are chosen to reach a target in 3D space. In this study, we first develop a differentiable projection (DiffProj) rendering framework for the efficient computation of Digitally Reconstructed Radiographs (DRRs) with automatic differentiability from either Cone-Beam Computerized Tomography (CBCT) or neural scene representations, including two newly proposed methods, Neural Tuned Tomography (NeTT) and masked Neural Radiance Fields (mNeRF). We then perform pose estimation by iterative gradient descent using various candidate loss functions, that quantify the image discrepancy of the synthesized DRR with respect to the ground-truth fluoroscopic X-ray image. Compared to alternative loss functions, the Mutual Information loss function can significantly improve pose estimation accuracy, as it can effectively prevent entrapment in local optima. Using the Mutual Information loss, a comprehensive evaluation of pose estimation performed on a tomographic X-ray dataset of 50 patients$'$ skulls shows that utilizing either discretized (CBCT) or neural (NeTT/mNeRF) scene representations in DiffProj leads to comparable performance in DRR appearance and pose estimation (3D angle errors: mean $\leq$ 3.2{\deg} and 90% quantile $\leq$ 3.4{\deg}), despite the latter often incurring considerable training expenses and time. These findings could be instrumental for selecting appropriate approaches to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of fluoroscopic X-ray pose estimation in widespread image-guided interventions.

A Theoretical Analysis of Granulometry-Based Roughness Measures on Cartosat DEMs
The study of water bodies such as rivers is an important problem in the remote sensing community. A meaningful set of quantitative features reflecting the geophysical properties help us better understand the formation and evolution of rivers. Typically, river sub-basins are analyzed using Cartosat Digital Elevation Models (DEMs), obtained at regular time epochs. One of the useful geophysical features of a river sub-basin is that of a roughness measure on DEMs. However, to the best of our knowledge, there is not much literature available on theoretical analysis of roughness measures. In this article, we revisit the roughness measure on DEM data adapted from multiscale granulometries in mathematical morphology, namely multiscale directional granulometric index (MDGI). This measure was classically used to obtain shape-size analysis in grayscale images. In earlier works, MDGIs were introduced to capture the characteristic surficial roughness of a river sub-basin along specific directions. Also, MDGIs can be efficiently computed and are known to be useful features for classification of river sub-basins. In this article, we ask the question when does a MDGI fail to classify distinct DEMs? We provide a theoretical analysis of a MDGI to answer this question. In particular, we identify nonrivial sufficient conditions on the structure of DEMs under which MDGIs cannot distinguish between distinct DEMs. These properties are illustrated with some fictitious DEMs. We also provide connections to a discrete derivative of volume of a DEM. Based on these connections, we provide intuition as to why a MDGI is considered a roughness measure. We empirically verify that MGDIs capture the topographical characteristics using the Lower-Indus, Wardha, and Barmer river sub-basins. We show that a simple decision tree based on MDGI features alone can successfully distinguish between sub-basins with a high accuracy. We obtain upto 94% accuracy while the baseline of random classifier is around 33.34%.

DONE