Deeptof: off-the-shelf real-time correction of multipath interference in time-of-flight imaging
Intrinsic images by clustering
Decomposing an input image into its intrinsic shading and reflectance components is a long‐standing ill‐posed problem. We present a novel algorithm that requires no user strokes and works on a single image. Based on simple assumptions about its reflectance and luminance, we first find clusters of similar reflectance in the image, and build a linear system describing the connections and relations between them. Our assumptions are less restrictive than widely‐adopted Retinex‐based approaches, and can be further relaxed in conflicting situations. The resulting system is robust even in the presence of areas where our assumptions do not hold. We show a wide variety of results, including natural images, objects from the MIT dataset and texture images, along with several applications, proving the versatility of our method.

A framework for transient rendering
Recent advances in ultra-fast imaging have triggered many promising applications in graphics and vision, such as capturing transparent objects, estimating hidden geometry and materials, or visualizing light in motion. There is, however, very little work regarding the effective simulation and analysis of transient light transport, where the speed of light can no longer be considered infinite. We first introduce the transient path integral framework, formally describing light transport in transient state. We then analyze the difficulties arising when considering the light's time-of-flight in the simulation (rendering) of images and videos. We propose a novel density estimation technique that allows reusing sampled paths to reconstruct time-resolved radiance, and devise new sampling strategies that take into account the distribution of radiance along time in participating media. We then efficiently simulate time-resolved phenomena (such as caustic propagation, fluorescence or temporal chromatic dispersion), which can help design future ultra-fast imaging devices using an analysis-by-synthesis approach, as well as to achieve a better understanding of the nature of light transport.

Physically-based simulation of rainbows
In this article, we derive a physically-based model for simulating rainbows. Previous techniques for simulating rainbows have used either geometric optics (ray tracing) or Lorenz-Mie theory. Lorenz-Mie theory is by far the most accurate technique as it takes into account optical effects such as dispersion, polarization, interference, and diffraction. These effects are critical for simulating rainbows accurately. However, as Lorenz-Mie theory is restricted to scattering by spherical particles, it cannot be applied to real raindrops which are nonspherical, especially for larger raindrops. We present the first comprehensive technique for simulating the interaction of a wavefront of light with a physically-based water drop shape. Our technique is based on ray tracing extended to account for dispersion, polarization, interference, and diffraction. Our model matches Lorenz-Mie theory for spherical particles, but it also enables the accurate simulation of nonspherical particles. It can simulate many different rainbow phenomena including double rainbows and supernumerary bows. We show how the nonspherical raindrops influence the shape of the rainbows, and we provide a simulation of the rare twinned rainbow, which is believed to be caused by nonspherical water drops.

BSSRDF estimation from single images
We present a novel method to estimate an approximation of the reflectance characteristics of optically thick, homogeneous translucent materials using only a single photograph as input. First, we approximate the diffusion profile as a linear combination of piecewise constant functions, an approach that enables a linear system minimization and maximizes robustness in the presence of suboptimal input data inferred from the image. We then fit to a smoother monotonically decreasing model, ensuring continuity on its first derivative. We show the feasibility of our approach and validate it in controlled environments, comparing well against physical measurements from previous works. Next, we explore the performance of our method in uncontrolled scenarios, where neither lighting nor geometry are known. We show that these can be roughly approximated from the corresponding image by making two simple assumptions: that the object is lit by a distant light source and that it is globally convex, allowing us to capture the visual appearance of the photographed material. Compared with previous works, our technique offers an attractive balance between visual accuracy and ease of use, allowing its use in a wide range of scenarios including off‐the‐shelf, single images, thus extending the current repertoire of real‐world data acquisition techniques.

Non-linear Volume Photon Mapping.
This paper describes a novel extension of the photon mapping algorithm, capable of handling both volume multiple inelastic scattering and curved light paths simultaneously. The extension is based on the Full Radiative Transfer Equation (FRTE) and Fermat's law, and yields physically accurate, high-dynamic data than can be used for image generation or for other simulation purposes, such as driving simulators, underwater vision or lighting studies in architecture. Photons are traced into the participating medium with a varying index of refraction, and their curved trajectories followed (curved paths are the cause of certain atmospheric effects such as mirages or rippling desert images). Every time a photon is absorbed, a Russian roulette algorithm based on the quantum efficiency of the medium determines whether the inelastic scattering event takes place (causing volume fluorescence). The simulation of both underwater and atmospheric effects is shown, providing a global illumination solution without the restrictions of previous approaches.

Simulation of atmospheric phenomena
Visualizing underwater ocean optics
Simulating the in‐water ocean light field is a daunting task. Ocean waters are one of the richest participating media, where light interacts not only with water molecules, but with suspended particles and organic matter as well. The concentration of each constituent greatly affects these interactions, resulting in very different hues. Inelastic scattering events such as fluorescence or Raman scattering imply energy transfers that are usually neglected in the simulations. Our contributions in this paper are a bio‐optical model of ocean waters suitable for computer graphics simulations, along with an improved method to obtain an accurate solution of the in‐water light field based on radiative transfer theory. The method provides a link between the inherent optical properties that define the medium and its apparent optical properties, which describe how it looks. The bio‐optical model of the ocean uses published data from oceanography studies. For inelastic scattering we compute all frequency changes at higher and lower energy values, based on the spectral quantum efficiency function of the medium. The results shown prove the usability of the system as a predictive rendering algorithm. Areas of application for this research span from underwater imagery to remote sensing; the resolution method is general enough to be usable in any type of participating medium simulation.

Coral-segmentation: Training dense labeling models with sparse ground truth
Biological datasets, such as our case of study, coral segmentation, often present scarce and sparse annotated image labels. Transfer learning techniques allow us to adapt existing deep learning models to new domains, even with small amounts of training data. Therefore, one of the main challenges to train dense segmentation models is to obtain the required dense labeled training data. This work presents a novel pipeline to address this pitfall and demonstrates the advantages of applying it to coral imagery segmentation. We fine tune state-of-the-art encoder-decoder CNN models for semantic segmentation thanks to a new proposed augmented labeling strategy. Our experiments run on a recent coral dataset [4], proving that this augmented ground truth allows us to effectively learn coral segmentation, as well as provide a relevant score of the segmentation quality based on it. Our approach provides a segmentation of comparable or better quality than the baseline presented with the dataset and a more flexible end-to-end pipeline.

Sparse ellipsometry: portable acquisition of polarimetric SVBRDF and shape with unstructured flash photography
Ellipsometry techniques

Chasing the green flash: a global illumination solution for inhomogeneous media
Several natural phenomena, such as mirages or the green flash, are owed to inhomogeneous media in which the index of refraction is not constant. This makes the light rays travel a curved path while going through those media. One way to simulate global illumination in inhomogeneous media is to use a curved ray tracing algorithm, but this approach presents some problems that still need to be solved. This paper introduces a full solution to the global illumination problem, based on what we have called curved photon mapping, that can be used to simulate several natural atmospheric phenomena. We also present a model of the Human Visual System (HVS) to display images in a more realistic way, taking into account how we perceive luminances in a real-world scene. This is of special interest in the green flash effect, where some of the perceived green is owed to bleaching of the photoreceptors in the human eye.

Higher order ray marching
Rendering participating media is still a challenging and time consuming task. In such media light interacts at every differential point of its path. Several rendering algorithms are based on ray marching: dividing the path of light into segments and calculating interactions at each of them. In this work, we revisit and analyze ray marching both as a quadrature integrator and as an initial value problem solver, and apply higher order adaptive solvers that ensure several interesting properties, such as faster convergence, adaptiveness to the mathematical definition of light transport and robustness to singularities. We compare several numerical methods, including standard ray marching and Monte Carlo integration, and illustrate the benefits of different solvers for a variety of scenes. Any participating media rendering algorithm that is based on ray marching may benefit from the application of our approach by reducing the number of needed samples (and therefore, rendering time) and increasing accuracy.

Convolution‐based simulation of homogeneous subsurface scattering
This paper introduces a new method for simulating homogeneous subsurface light transport in translucent objects. Our approach is based on irradiance convolutions over a multi‐layered representation of the volume for light transport, which is general enough to obtain plausible depictions of translucent objects based on the diffusion approximation. We aim at providing an efficient physically based algorithm that can apply arbitrary diffusion profiles to general geometries. We obtain accurate results for a wide range of materials, on par with the hierarchical method by Jensen and Buhler.

