SICE: an improved missing data imputation technique
Automated essay scoring using generalized latent semantic analysis
Automated Essay Grading (AEG) is a very important research area in educational technology. Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA) is an information retrieval technique used for automated essay grading. LSA forms a word by document matrix and then the matrix is decomposed using Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) technique. Existing AEG systems based on LSA cannot achieve higher level of performance to be a replica of human grader. We have developed an AEG system using Generalized Latent Semantic Analysis (GLSA) which makes n-gram by document matrix instead of word by document matrix. We have evaluated this system using details representation and showed the performance of the system. Experimental results show that our system outperforms the existing system.

A new technique for database fragmentation in distributed systems
Improving the performance of a database system is one of the key research issues now a day. Distributed processing is an effective way to improve reliability and performance of a database system. Distribution of data is a collection of fragmentation, allocation and replication processes. Previous research works provided fragmentation solution based on empirical data about the type and frequency of the queries submitted to a centralized system. These solutions are not suitable at the initial stage of a database design for a distributed system. In this paper we have presented a fragmentation technique that can be applied at the initial stage as well as in later stages of a distributed database system for partitioning the relations. Allocation of fragments is done simultaneously in our algorithm. Result shows that proposed technique can solve initial fragmentation problem of relational databases for distributed systems properly. General Terms Database, Distributed database, Fragmentation

Clustering medical data to predict the likelihood of diseases
Several studies show that background knowledge of a domain can improve the results of clustering algorithms. In this paper, we illustrate how to use the background knowledge of medical domain in clustering process to predict the likelihood of diseases. To find the likelihood of diseases, clustering has to be done based on anticipated likelihood attributes with core attributes of disease in data point. To find the likelihood of diseases, we have proposed constraint k-Means-Mode clustering algorithm. Attributes of Medical data are both continuous and categorical. The developed algorithm can handle both continuous and discrete data and perform clustering based on anticipated likelihood attributes with core attributes of disease in data point. We have demonstrated its effectiveness by testing it for a real world patient data set.

Digital health data: a comprehensive review of privacy and security risks and some recommendations
In todays world, health data are being produced in everincreasing amounts due to extensive use of medical devices generating data in digital form. These data are stored in diverse formats at different health information systems. Medical practitioners and researchers can be benefited significantly if these massive heterogeneous data could be integrated and made accessible through a common platform. On the other hand, digital health data containing protected health information (PHI) are the main target of the cybercriminals. In this paper, we have provided a state of the art review of the security threats in the integrated healthcare information systems. According to our analysis, healthcare data servers are leading target of the hackers because of monetary value. At present, attacks on healthcare organizations’ data are 1.25 times higher compared to five years ago. We have provided some important recommendations to minimize the risk of attacks and to reduce the chance of compromising patients’ privacy after any successful attack.

Privacy and security problems of national health data warehouse: a convenient solution for developing countries
Healthcare providers and researchers can discover the hidden knowledge from different health repositories if integration of data is performed by data warehousing. Integration of health records requires linkage of patients' data in different heterogeneous sources. Preserving record linkage in National Health Data Warehouse, by retaining identifiable attributes, is essential for effective data mining as well. In contrast identifiable health data have high risk to patient privacy and make the health information systems security vulnerable to hackers. In this paper, we have provided a practical solution: Global Patient Identification Technique (GPIT) that can anonymize identifiable private data of the patients while maintaining record linkage in integrated health repositories to facilitate knowledge discovery process. We have used encrypted mobile number, gender and NAMEVALUE of patients to produce Global Patient Identification Key. This system is being implemented in Bangladesh to develop National Health Data Warehouse. Our approach is also suitable for the developing countries where poverty and illiteracy rates are high among mass people.

Towards development of health data warehouse: Bangladesh perspective
Health informatics is one of the top most focuses of researchers now a days. Availability of timely and accurate data is essential for informed medical decision making. Health care organizations face a common problem with large amount of data they have in numerous systems. Such systems are unstructured and unorganized, requires computational time for data integration. Researchers, medical practitioners, health care providers and patients will not be able to utilize the knowledge stored in different repositories unless synthesize the information from disparate sources. This problem can be solved by Data warehousing. Data warehousing techniques share a common set of tasks, include requirements analysis, data design, architectural design, implementation and deployment. Developing Clinical data warehouse is complex and time consuming but is essential to deliver quality patient care. Data integration tasks of medical data store are much challenging when designing clinical data warehouse architecture. This research identifies prospects and complexities of Health data warehousing and Mining in Bangladesh perspective and proposes a data-warehousing model suitable for integrating data from different health care sources.

Knowledge discovery from academic data using Association Rule Mining
Discovering the hidden knowledge from large volume of educational data and applying it properly for decision making is essential for ensuring high quality education in any academic institution. This knowledge is extractable through data mining techniques. Association Rule Mining technique aims at discovering implicative tendencies that can provide valuable information for the decision maker. In this paper, we present an applied research on mining Association Rule using academic data of a university. We have discovered knowledge regarding the academic performance and personal statistics of students. Here we have developed a technique to transform the existing relational database for students' academic performance into a universal database format using academic and personal data of a student. After that we have transformed the universal format into a modified format for suitability of using Association Rule mining algorithm. We have used Apriori algorithm for finding interested association rules from the transformed database which can be useful to extract knowledge of students' academic progress, decay in their potentiality, abandonment as well as retention of students. The impact of courses and curriculum and teaching methodologies are also found from the extracted knowledge which is beneficial for any institution of higher education.

Development of national health data warehouse for data mining.
Health informatics is currently one of the top focuses of computer science researchers. Availability of timely and accurate data is essential for medical decision making. Health care organizations face a common problem with the large amount of data they have in numerous systems. Researchers, health care providers and patients will not be able to utilize the knowledge stored in different repositories unless amalgamate the information from disparate sources is done. This problem can be solved by Data warehousing. Data warehousing techniques share a common set of tasks, include requirements analysis, data design, architectural design, implementation and deployment. Developing health data warehouse is complex and time consuming but is also essential to deliver quality health services. This paper depicts prospects and complexities of health data warehousing and mining and illustrate a data-warehousing model suitable for integrating data from different health care sources to discover effective knowledge.

An effective learning and teaching model for programming languages
Towards development of national health data warehouse for knowledge discovery
Health data integration with Secured Record Linkage: A practical solution for Bangladesh and other developing countries
Knowledge discovery from various health data repositories requires the incorporation of healthcare data from diversified sources. Maintaining record linkage during the integration of medical data is an important research issue. Researchers have given different solutions to this problem that are applicable for developed countries where electronic health record of patients are maintained with identifiers like social security number (SSN), universal patient identifier (UPI), health insurance number, etc. These solutions cannot be used correctly for record linkage of health data of developing countries because of missing data, ambiguity in patient identification, and high amount of noise in patient information. Also, identifiable health data in electronic health repositories may produce a significant risk to patient privacy and also make the health information systems security vulnerable to hackers. In this paper, we have analyzed the practical problems of collecting and integrating healthcare data in Bangladesh for developing national health data warehouse. We have proposed a privacy preserved secured record linkage architecture that can support constrained health data of developing countries such as Bangladesh. Our technique can anonymize identifiable private data of the patients while maintaining record linkage in integrated health repositories to facilitate knowledge discovery process. Experimental results show that our proposed method successfully linked records with acceptable accuracy for noisy data in the absence of any standard ID like SSN.

Development of national health data warehouse Bangladesh: Privacy issues and a practical solution
Healthcare organizations in Bangladesh own a large amount of data in diverse health information systems. Potential and useful hidden knowledge can be discovered if integration of this huge medical data is performed in national level. The integration process requires linkage of patients' records among different heterogeneous sources. To facilitate effective data mining, it is essential to preserve record linkage in health data warehouse by retaining identifiable attributes. On the other hand, identifiable health data have high risk to patient privacy and also increase the chance of attacks by cyber criminals. In this paper, we have provided a practical solution of privacy and security problems for developing national health data warehouse of Bangladesh. Our developed technique can anonymize identifiable private data of the patients while maintaining record linkage in national warehouse to facilitate knowledge discovery process. For this purpose, we have used encrypted mobile number, gender and name-value of patients to produce Patient Identification Key. Our system is being implemented to protect privacy of sensitive health data in health data warehouse.

A privacy-preserving national clinical data warehouse: Architecture and analysis
National Health Data Warehouse Bangladesh for remote health monitoring: Features, problems and privacy issues
Supporting the treatment of mental diseases using data mining
Mental disorders are a rising phenomenon in Bangladesh. This phenomenon has contributed to intensive psychological healthcare data. It may change into helpful information via data mining application. In Bangladesh, healthcare data is underutilized. There are fifteen million individuals enduring from mental diseases of the many sorts in our country. Particularly, nearly 10 percent of the people seriously required mental health services. Early treatment of mental state issues helps the psychiatrist to treat it as a primary stage. For various mental problem symptoms are similar which makes diagnoses very complex task to recognize and sometimes doctors misjudged the disease. The objective of this research is to examine a classification algorithm to predict mental disorder. In this study, we analyze 466 mental health patients dataset to find the relation between diagnosis and attributes. We applied three machine-learning techniques: Random forest, SVM, K-nearest neighbor and compared performances of the above algorithms using various measures of accuracy to detect mental health problems. Experimental results show that Random forest shows a superior performance than the other algorithms we applied.

An analysis of the problems for Health Data integration in Bangladesh
Discovering the hidden knowledge from different health data repositories requires the integration of health data from widely diversified sources. While integration, maintaining record linkage is a critical research issue for developing countries such as Bangladesh. Researchers have given different solutions to this problem that are applicable for developed countries where electronic health record of patients are maintained with identifiers like social security number (SSN), Universal Patient Identifier (UPI), etc. These algorithms cannot be used for integrating health data in Bangladesh because of many missing data, different ID used for the same patient in same or different systems and high amount of noise in other patient information. In this paper, we have defined the constraining factors of healthcare date available in Bangladesh and other developing countries. We have analyzed the practical problems of collecting and integrating healthcare data in Bangladesh to build up its National Health Data Warehouse (NHDW). We have also provided some important recommendations to boost the integration process and also to support record linkage.

Problem-based e-learning and evaluation system for database design and programming in SQL
 Abstract—Problem-based e-Learning (PBeL) can be a highly successful model for the teaching and learning of Database, one of the core courses of Computer Science and Engineering in undergraduate level. There are very few e-Learning systems found to support the learning of the different components of Database course. Existing systems provide only the partial solution of extensive learning of this course and also do not support the automatic evaluation of student performance. The main components of database practical course are: database design, SQL, PL/SQL and implementation of database projects. In this research, we have developed a system: SQL Learning and Evaluation System (SQL-LES) for effective teaching and learning of all of the above components of the practical parts of the database course. We have developed a question bank covering all areas of SQL questions and answers. The question bank can be used for both learning and automatic evaluation of student's performance by creating test sets and assigning the test sets to the individual students. The system can effectively be used for the teaching, learning and evaluation of database design, PL/SQL and database projects as well. SQL-LES has been applied in teaching, learning and evaluation of database laboratory course in undergraduate level of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) in several years and found to be very effective in classroom environment. Index Terms—E-learning, problem based learning (PBL),

Scalability and performance analysis of CRUD matrix based fragmentation technique for distributed database
Distributed processing is an efficient way to improve performance of a database management system significantly. Distribution of data involves fragmentation, replication and allocation process. Previous research works provided fragmentation solution based on empirical data which are not applicable at the initial stage of a distributed database. In this paper we have presented a fragmentation technique that can be applied at the initial stage when no experimental data are present as well as in later stages of a distributed database system for partitioning the relations. Scalability of our proposed technique also investigated for different situation those may arise in practical cases of a distributed database. Experimental results show that our technique can solve initial fragmentation problem of distributed database system properly also compete with other non initial fragmentation techniques quite good in later stages.

Optimized entity attribute value model: a search efficient representation of high dimensional and sparse data
This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which freely allows to down-load, reuse, reprint, modify, distribute, and/or copy articles as long as a proper citation is given to the original authors and sources. This article is part of the special issue: the 9th Asia Pacific Bioinformatics Conference (APBC2011).

DONE