High-thermoelectric performance of nanostructured bismuth antimony telluride bulk alloys
The dimensionless thermoelectric figure of merit (ZT) in bismuth antimony telluride (BiSbTe) bulk alloys has remained around 1 for more than 50 years. We show that a peak ZT of 1.4 at 100°C can be achieved in a p-type nanocrystalline BiSbTe bulk alloy. These nanocrystalline bulk materials were made by hot pressing nanopowders that were ball-milled from crystalline ingots under inert conditions. Electrical transport measurements, coupled with microstructure studies and modeling, show that the ZT improvement is the result of low thermal conductivity caused by the increased phonon scattering by grain boundaries and defects. More importantly, ZT is about 1.2 at room temperature and 0.8 at 250°C, which makes these materials useful for cooling and power generation. Cooling devices that use these materials have produced high-temperature differences of 86°, 106°, and 119°C with hot-side temperatures set at 50°, 100°, and 150°C, respectively. This discovery sets the stage for use of a new nanocomposite approach in developing high-performance low-cost bulk thermoelectric materials.

New directions for low‐dimensional thermoelectric materials
Many of the recent advances in enhancing the thermoelectric figure of merit are linked to nanoscale phenomena found both in bulk samples containing nanoscale constituents and in nanoscale samples themselves. Prior theoretical and experimental proof‐of‐principle studies on quantum‐well superlattice and quantum‐wire samples have now evolved into studies on bulk samples containing nanostructured constituents prepared by chemical or physical approaches. In this Review, nanostructural composites are shown to exhibit nanostructures and properties that show promise for thermoelectric applications, thus bringing together low‐dimensional and bulk materials for thermoelectric applications. Particular emphasis is given in this Review to the ability to achieve 1) a simultaneous increase in the power factor and a decrease in the thermal conductivity in the same nanocomposite sample and for transport in the same direction and 2) lower values of the thermal conductivity in these nanocomposites as compared to alloy samples of the same chemical composition. The outlook for future research directions for nanocomposite thermoelectric materials is also discussed.

Bulk nanostructured thermoelectric materials: current research and future prospects
Thermoelectrics have long been recognized as a potentially transformative energy conversion technology due to their ability to convert heat directly into electricity. Despite this potential, thermoelectric devices are not in common use because of their low efficiency, and today they are only used in niche markets where reliability and simplicity are more important than performance. However, the ability to create nanostructured thermoelectric materials has led to remarkable progress in enhancing thermoelectric properties, making it plausible that thermoelectrics could start being used in new settings in the near future. Of the various types of nanostructured materials, bulk nanostructured materials have shown the most promise for commercial use because, unlike many other nanostructured materials, they can be fabricated in large quantities and in a form that is compatible with existing thermoelectric device configurations. The first generation of these materials is currently being developed for commercialization, but creating the second generation will require a fundamental understanding of carrier transport in these complex materials which is presently lacking. In this review we introduce the principles and present status of bulk nanostructured materials, then describe some of the unanswered questions about carrier transport and how current research is addressing these questions. Finally, we discuss several research directions which could lead to the next generation of bulk nanostructured materials.

Solar steam generation by heat localization
Nanoscale energy transport and conversion: a parallel treatment of electrons, molecules, phonons, and photons
This is a graduate level textbook in nanoscale heat transfer and energy conversion that can also be used as a reference for researchers in the developing field of nanoengineering. It provides a comprehensive overview of microscale heat transfer, focusing on thermal energy storage and transport. Chen broadens the readership by incorporating results from related disciplines, from the point of view of thermal energy storage and transport, and presents related topics on the transport of electrons, phonons, photons, and molecules. This book is part of the MIT-Pappalardo Series in Mechanical Engineering.

Nanoscale thermal transport. II. 2003–2012
Part I. Reviews and Research Reports: 1. Universal biomolecule binding interlayers created by energetic ion bombardment Marcela Bilek 2. Neural cell attachment on metal ion implanted glass surfaces Emel Sokullu Urkac 3. Cluster ion beam processing: review of current and prospective applications Isao Yamada 4. Nano-engineering with a focused helium ion beam Diederik Maas 5. Multi-ion beam lithography and processing studies Bill Appleton 6. Ion irradiation effects in silicon nanowires Kai Nordlund 7. Folding graphene with swift heavy ions Sevilay Akcoltekin 8. Ion irradiation on phase change materials Emanuele Rimini 9. Ion beams for synthesis and modifications of nanostructures in semiconductors Anand Pathak 10. Raman scattering study of Si nanoclusters formed in Si through a double Au implantation Durga Mahapatra 11. Effects of hydrogen ion implantation and thermal annealing on structural and optical properties of single-crystal sapphire Mengbing Huang 12. Post-CMOS integration of nanomechanical devices by direct ion beam irradiation of silicon Francesc Perez-Murano 13. Enhanced adhesion of coating layers by ion beam mixing: an application for nuclear hydrogen production Jae-Won Park 14. Structural changes induced by swift heavy ion beams in tensile strained Al(1-x)InxN/GaN hetero-structures Anand Pathak 15. 5 MeV Si ion modification on thermoelectric SiO2/SiO2+Cu multilayer films Cydale Smith 16. Study of scalable IBS nanopatterning mechanisms for III-V semiconductors using in-situ surface characterization Jean-Paul Allain 17. Modeling of approximated electron transport across ion beam patterned quantum dot nanostructures Jonathan Lassiter 18. RBS, XRD, raman and AFM studies of microwave synthesized Ge nanocrystals Anand Pathak 19. Comparison of ion beam and electron beam induced transport of hot charge carriers in metal-insulator-metal junctions Marika Schleberger Part II. Forum Report: 20. Future directions for ion beam technology and research: forum report John Baglin.

Solar-driven interfacial evaporation
Thermal conductivity and ballistic-phonon transport in the cross-plane direction of superlattices
Significant reductions in both the in-plane and cross-plane thermal conductivities of superlattices, in comparison to the values calculated from the Fourier heat conduction theory using bulk material properties, have been observed experimentally in recent years. Understanding the mechanisms controlling the thermal conductivities of superlattice structures is of considerable current interest for microelectronic and thermoelectric applications. In this work, models of the thermal conductivity and phonon transport in the direction perpendicular to the film plane of superlattices are established based on solving the phonon Boltzmann transport equation (BTE). Different phonon interface scattering mechanisms are considered, including elastic vs inelastic, and diffuse vs specular scattering of phonons. Numerical solution of the BTE yields the effective temperature distribution, thermal conductivity, and thermal boundary resistance (TBR) of the superlattices. The modeling results show that the effective thermal conductivity of superlattices in the perpendicular direction is generally controlled by phonon transport within each layer and the TBR between different layers. The TBR is no longer an intrinsic property of the interface, but depends on the layer thickness as well as the phonon mean free path. In the thin layer limit, phonon transport within each layer is ballistic, and the TBR dominates the effective thermal conductivity of superlattices. Approximate analytical solutions of the BTE are obtained for this thin-film limit. The modeling results based on partially specular and partially diffuse interface scattering processes are in reasonable agreement with recent experimental data on GaAs/AlAs and Si/Ge superlattices. From the modeling, it is concluded that the cross-plane thermal conductivity of these superlattices is controlled by diffuse and inelastic scattering processes at interfaces. Results of this work suggest that it is possible to make superlattice structures with thermal conductivity totally different from those of their constituting materials.

Perspectives on thermoelectrics: from fundamentals to device applications
This review is an update of a previous review (A. J. Minnich, et al., Energy Environ. Sci., 2009, 2, 466) published two years ago by some of the co-authors, focusing on progress made in thermoelectrics over the past two years on charge and heat carrier transport, strategies to improve the thermoelectric figure of merit, with new discussions on device physics and applications, and assessing challenges on these topics. Understanding of phonon transport in bulk materials has advanced significantly as the first-principles calculations are applied to thermoelectric materials, and experimental tools are being developed. Some new strategies have been developed to improve electron transport in thermoelectric materials. Fundamental questions on phonon and electron transport across interfaces and in thermoelectric materials remain. With thermoelectric materials reaching high ZT values well above one, the field is ready to take a step forward and go beyond the materials' figure of merit. Developing device contacts and module fabrication techniques, developing a platform for efficiency measurements, and identifying applications are becoming increasingly important for the future of thermoelectrics.

A benchmark study on the thermal conductivity of nanofluids
This article reports on the International Nanofluid Property Benchmark Exercise, or INPBE, in which the thermal conductivity of identical samples of colloidally stable dispersions of nanoparticles or “nanofluids,” was measured by over 30 organizations worldwide, using a variety of experimental approaches, including the transient hot wire method, steady-state methods, and optical methods. The nanofluids tested in the exercise were comprised of aqueous and nonaqueous basefluids, metal and metal oxide particles, near-spherical and elongated particles, at low and high particle concentrations. The data analysis reveals that the data from most organizations lie within a relatively narrow band (±10% or less) about the sample average with only few outliers. The thermal conductivity of the nanofluids was found to increase with particle concentration and aspect ratio, as expected from classical theory. There are (small) systematic differences in the absolute values of the nanofluid thermal conductivity among the various experimental approaches; however, such differences tend to disappear when the data are normalized to the measured thermal conductivity of the basefluid. The effective medium theory developed for dispersed particles by Maxwell in 1881 and recently generalized by Nan et al. [J. Appl. Phys. 81, 6692 (1997)], was found to be in good agreement with the experimental data, suggesting that no anomalous enhancement of thermal conductivity was achieved in the nanofluids tested in this exercise.

Analysis of optical absorption in silicon nanowire arrays for photovoltaic applications
This paper presents analysis of the optical absorption in silicon nanowire arrays that have potential applications in solar cells. The effects of wire diameter, length, and filling ratio on the absorptance of nanowire arrays are simulated. The study reveals that nanowire arrays with moderate filling ratio have much lower reflectance compared to thin films. In a high-frequency regime, nanowire arrays have higher absorptance than their thin film counterparts. In low-frequency regime, nanowire arrays absorb less but can be designed to approach that of the film by changing the filling ratio.

High-performance flat-panel solar thermoelectric generators with high thermal concentration
Enhanced thermoelectric figure-of-merit in nanostructured p-type silicon germanium bulk alloys
A dimensionless thermoelectric figure-of-merit (ZT) of 0.95 in p-type nanostructured bulk silicon germanium (SiGe) alloys is achieved, which is about 90% higher than what is currently used in space flight missions, and 50% higher than the reported record in p-type SiGe alloys. These nanostructured bulk materials were made by using a direct current-induced hot press of mechanically alloyed nanopowders that were initially synthesized by ball milling of commercial grade Si and Ge chunks with boron powder. The enhancement of ZT is due to a large reduction of thermal conductivity caused by the increased phonon scattering at the grain boundaries of the nanostructures combined with an increased power factor at high temperatures.

Recent developments in thermoelectric materials
Efficient solid state energy conversion based on the Peltier effect for cooling and the Seebeck effect for power generation calls for materials with high electrical conductivity σ, high Seebeck coefficient S, and low thermal conductivity k. Identifying materials with a high thermoelectric figure of merit Z(= S 2σ/k) has proven to be an extremely challenging task. After 30 years of slow progress, thermoelectric materials research experienced a resurgence, inspired by the developments of new concepts and theories to engineer electron and phonon transport in both nanostructures and bulk materials. This review provides a critical summary of some recent developments of new concepts and new materials. In nanostructures, quantum and classical size effects provide opportunities to tailor the electron and phonon transport through structural engineering. Quantum wells, superlattices, quantum wires, and quantum dots have been employed to change the band structure, energy levels, and density of states of electrons, and have led to improved energy conversion capability of charged carriers compared to those of their bulk counterparts. Interface reflection and the scattering of phonons in these nanostructures have been utilised to reduce the heat conduction loss. Increases in the thermoelectric figure of merit based on size effects for either electrons or phonons have been demonstrated. In bulk materials, new synthetic routes have led to engineered complex crystal structures with the desired phonon-glass electron-crystal behaviour. Recent studies on new materials have shown that dimensionless figure of merit (Z ×temperature) values close to 1·5 could be obtained at elevated temperatures. These results have led to intensified scientific efforts to identify, design, engineer and characterise novel materials with a high potential for achieving ZT much greater than 1 near room temperature.

Steam generation under one sun enabled by a floating structure with thermal concentration
Enhancement of thermoelectric figure‐of‐merit by a bulk nanostructuring approach
Recently a significant figure‐of‐merit (ZT) improvement in the most‐studied existing thermoelectric materials has been achieved by creating nanograins and nanostructures in the grains using the combination of high‐energy ball milling and a direct‐current‐induced hot‐press process. Thermoelectric transport measurements, coupled with microstructure studies and theoretical modeling, show that the ZT improvement is the result of low lattice thermal conductivity due to the increased phonon scattering by grain boundaries and structural defects. In this article, the synthesis process and the relationship between the microstructures and the thermoelectric properties of the nanostructured thermoelectric bulk materials with an enhanced ZT value are reviewed. It is expected that the nanostructured materials described here will be useful for a variety of applications such as waste heat recovery, solar energy conversion, and environmentally friendly refrigeration.

Polyethylene nanofibres with very high thermal conductivities
Surface phonon polaritons mediated energy transfer between nanoscale gaps
Surface phonon polaritons are electromagnetic waves that propagate along the interfaces of polar dielectrics and exhibit a large local-field enhancement near the interfaces at infrared frequencies. Theoretical calculations show that such surface waves can lead to breakdown of the Planck's blackbody radiation law in the near field. Here, we experimentally demonstrate that surface phonon polaritons dramatically enhance energy transfer between two surfaces at small gaps by measuring radiation heat transfer between a microsphere and a flat surface down to 30 nm separation. The corresponding heat transfer coefficients at nanoscale gaps are 3 orders of magnitude larger than that of the blackbody radiation limit. The high energy flux can be exploited to develop new radiative cooling and thermophotovoltaic technologies.

Enhanced thermoelectric figure of merit in nanostructured n-type silicon germanium bulk alloy
The dimensionless thermoelectric figure of merit (ZT) of the n-type silicon germanium (SiGe) bulk alloy at high temperature has remained at about one for a few decades. Here we report that by using a nanostructure approach, a peak ZT of about 1.3 at 900 °C in an n-type nanostructured SiGe bulk alloy has been achieved. The enhancement of ZT comes mainly from a significant reduction in the thermal conductivity caused by the enhanced phonon scattering off the increased density of nanograin boundaries. The enhanced ZT will make such materials attractive in many applications such as solar, thermal, and waste heat conversion into electricity.

Heat transport in silicon from first-principles calculations
Using harmonic and anharmonic force constants extracted from density functional calculations within a supercell, we have developed a relatively simple but general method to compute thermodynamic and thermal properties of any crystal. First, from the harmonic, cubic, and quartic force constants, we construct a force field for molecular dynamics. It is exact in the limit of small atomic displacements and thus does not suffer from inaccuracies inherent in semiempirical potentials such as Stillinger-Weber's. By using the Green-Kubo formula and molecular dynamics simulations, we extract the bulk thermal conductivity. This method is accurate at high temperatures where three-phonon processes need to be included to higher orders, but may suffer from size scaling issues. Next, we use perturbation theory (Fermi golden rule) to extract the phonon lifetimes and compute the thermal conductivity $\ensuremath{\kappa}$ from the relaxation-time approximation. This method is valid at most temperatures, but will overestimate $\ensuremath{\kappa}$ at very high temperatures, where higher-order processes neglected in our calculations also contribute. As a test, these methods are applied to bulk crystalline silicon, and the results are compared and differences are discussed in more detail. The presented methodology paves the way for a systematic approach to model heat transport in solids using multiscale modeling, in which the relaxation time due to anharmonic three-phonon processes is calculated quantitatively, in addition to the usual harmonic properties such as phonon frequencies and group velocities. It also allows the construction of an accurate bulk interatomic potentials database.

DONE