Multimodal fusion for multimedia analysis: a survey
Digital twins: The convergence of multimedia technologies
Originally developed to improve manufacturing processes, digital twins are being redefined as digital replications of living as well as nonliving entities that enable data to be seamlessly transmitted between the physical and virtual worlds. Digital twins facilitate the means to monitor, understand, and optimize the functions of all physical entities and for humans provide continuous feedback to improve quality of life and well-being.

An overview of serious games
Serious games are growing rapidly as a gaming industry as well as a field of academic research. There are many surveys in the field of digital serious games; however, most surveys are specific to a particular area such as education or health. So far, there has been little work done to survey digital serious games in general, which is the main goal of this paper. Hence, we discuss relevant work on serious games in different application areas including education, well-being, advertisement, cultural heritage, interpersonal communication, and health care. We also propose a taxonomy for digital serious games, and we suggest a classification of reviewed serious games applications from the literature against the defined taxonomy. Finally, the paper provides guidelines, drawn from the literature, for the design and development of successful serious games, as well as discussing research perspectives in this domain.

C2PS: A digital twin architecture reference model for the cloud-based cyber-physical systems
Cyber-physical system (CPS) is a new trend in the Internet-of-Things related research works, where physical systems act as the sensors to collect real-world information and communicate them to the computation modules (i.e. cyber layer), which further analyze and notify the findings to the corresponding physical systems through a feedback loop. Contemporary researchers recommend integrating cloud technologies in the CPS cyber layer to ensure the scalability of storage, computation, and cross domain communication capabilities. Though there exist a few descriptive models of the cloud-based CPS architecture, it is important to analytically describe the key CPS properties: computation, control, and communication. In this paper, we present a digital twin architecture reference model for the cloud-based CPS, C2PS, where we analytically describe the key properties of the C2PS. The model helps in identifying various degrees of basic and hybrid computation-interaction modes in this paradigm. We have designed C2PS smart interaction controller using a Bayesian belief network, so that the system dynamically considers current contexts. The composition of fuzzy rule base with the Bayes network further enables the system with reconfiguration capability. We also describe analytically, how C2PS subsystem communications can generate even more complex system-of-systems. Later, we present a telematics-based prototype driving assistance application for the vehicular domain of C2PS, VCPS, to demonstrate the efficacy of the architecture reference model.

Toward social internet of vehicles: Concept, architecture, and applications
The main vision of the Internet of Things (IoT) is to equip real-life physical objects with computing and communication power so that they can interact with each other for the social good. As one of the key members of IoT, Internet of Vehicles (IoV) has seen steep advancement in communication technologies. Now, vehicles can easily exchange safety, efficiency, infotainment, and comfort-related information with other vehicles and infrastructures using vehicular ad hoc networks (VANETs). We leverage on the cloud-based VANETs theme to propose cyber-physical architecture for the Social IoV (SIoV). SIoV is a vehicular instance of the Social IoT (SIoT), where vehicles are the key social entities in the machine-to-machine vehicular social networks. We have identified the social structures of SIoV components, their relationships, and the interaction types. We have mapped VANETs components into IoT-A architecture reference model to offer better integration of SIoV with other IoT domains. We also present a communication message structure based on automotive ontologies, the SAE J2735 message set, and the advanced traveler information system events schema that corresponds to the social graph. Finally, we provide the implementation details and the experimental analysis to demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed system as well as include different application scenarios for various user groups.

Evaluating and improving the depth accuracy of Kinect for Windows v2
Microsoft Kinect sensor has been widely used in many applications since the launch of its first version. Recently, Microsoft released a new version of Kinect sensor with improved hardware. However, the accuracy assessment of the sensor remains to be answered. In this paper, we measure the depth accuracy of the newly released Kinect v2 depth sensor, and obtain a cone model to illustrate its accuracy distribution. We then evaluate the variance of the captured depth values by depth entropy. In addition, we propose a trilateration method to improve the depth accuracy with multiple Kinects simultaneously. The experimental results are provided to ascertain the proposed model and method.

Open Java: von den Grundlagen zu den Anwendungen
The Potential of Haptics Technologies
In spite of the significant recent progress, the incorporation of haptics into virtual environments is still in its infancy due to limitations in the hardware, the cost of development, as well as the level of reality they provide. Nonetheless, we believe that the field will one day be one of the groundbreaking media of the future. It has its current holdups but the promise of the future is worth the wait. The technology is becoming cheaper and applications are becoming more forthcoming and apparent. If we can survive this infancy, it will promise to be an amazing revolution in the way we interact with computers and the virtual world. The researchers organize the rapidly increasing multidisciplinary research of haptics into four subareas: human haptics, machine haptics, computer haptics, and multimedia haptics

A survey of RST invariant image watermarking algorithms
In this paper, we review the algorithms for rotation, scaling and translation (RST) invariant image watermarking. There are mainly two categories of RST invariant image watermarking algorithms. One is to resynchronize the RST transformed image before conducting watermark extraction. Another is to embed and extract watermark in an RST invariant or semi-invariant domain. We discuss in detail the work principles of the typical RST invariant image watermarking algorithms, analyze the performance of these typical algorithms through implementation and point out their advantages and disadvantages

RST-invariant digital image watermarking based on log-polar mapping and phase correlation
Based on log-polar mapping (LPM) and phase correlation, the paper presents a novel digital image watermarking scheme that is invariant to rotation, scaling, and translation (RST). We embed a watermark in the LPMs of the Fourier magnitude spectrum of an original image, and use the phase correlation between the LPM of the original image and the LPM of the watermarked image to calculate the displacement of watermark positions in the LPM domain. The scheme preserves the image quality by avoiding computing the inverse log-polar mapping (ILPM), and produces smaller correlation coefficients for unwatermarked images by using phase correlation to avoid exhaustive search. The evaluations demonstrate that the scheme is invariant to rotation and translation, invariant to scaling when the scale is in a reasonable range, and very robust to JPEG compression.

Robust control of four-rotor unmanned aerial vehicle with disturbance uncertainty
This paper addresses the stability and tracking control problem of a quadrotor unmanned flying robot vehicle in the presence of modeling error and disturbance uncertainty. The input algorithms are designed for autonomous flight control with the help of an energy function. Adaptation laws are designed to learn and compensate the modeling error and external disturbance uncertainties. Lyapunov theorem shows that the proposed algorithms can guarantee asymptotic stability and tracking of the linear and angular motion of a quadrotor vehicle. Compared with the existing results, the proposed adaptive algorithm does not require an a priori known bound of the modeling errors and disturbance uncertainty. To illustrate the theoretical argument, experimental results on a commercial quadrotor vehicle are presented.

Haptics technologies: Bringing touch to multimedia
This poster will explore how the modern technology, a digital touch-table, can be used to create new learning experiences with exhibited materials for library users. Use of the touch-table allows users to interact with digital surrogates of exhibited documents in a way that is not possible with the physical objects. Moreover, it allows to show items beyond what physical space permits, featuring locally digitized items, materials from other repositories, videos, multimedia, and interactive elements. 
With pictures and screenshots, this poster will demonstrate on the example of the exhibition: Remembering the Nuremberg Trials: 70 Years Later, how the use of an interactive touch-table can enhance users’ engagement with the showcased materials and deepen their understanding of the presented subject. In addition to physical books, photos and archival items, this exhibition featured digital materials presented on an interactive touch-table, such as archival footage, photo documents, concentration camps survivors’ testimonies, reproductions of trials transcripts, and audio and visual materials illustrating the trial itself and the war crimes committed during the Second World War. 
The poster will “walk” the viewer through the necessary steps to create a successful interactive exhibit, sharing experiences and developed local practices with the software used.

ECG authentication for mobile devices
Traditional mobile login methods, like numerical or graphical passwords, are vulnerable to passive attacks. It is common for intruders to gain access to personal information of their victims by watching them enter their passwords into their mobile screens from a close proximity. With this in mind, a mobile biometric authentication algorithm based on electrocardiogram (ECG) is proposed. With this algorithm, the user will only need to touch two ECG electrodes (lead I) of the mobile device to gain access. The algorithm was tested with a cell phone case heart monitor in a controlled laboratory experiment at different times and conditions with ten subjects and also with 73 records obtained from the Physionet database. The obtained results reveal that our algorithm has 1.41% false acceptance rate and 81.82% true acceptance rate with 4 s of signal acquisition. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach on mobile authentication that uses ECG biometric signals and it shows a promising future for this technology. Nonetheless, further improvements are still needed to optimize accuracy while maintaining a short acquisition time for authentication.

Denial-of-Service (dos) attacks on load frequency control in smart grids
While open communication infrastructures are embedded into smart grids to support vast amounts of data exchange, it makes smart grids vulnerable to cyber attacks. In this paper, we investigate the effects of Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks on load frequency control (LFC) of smart grids. In contrast with existing works, we consider the problem that how DoS attacks affect the dynamic performance of a power system. The state space model of power systems under DoS attacks is formulated as a switched system. By applying switched system theories, the existence of DoS attacks that make the dynamics of a power system unstable is proved. A two-area power system is used to conduct case studies. The dynamic performance of the power system, such as convergence and steady-state errors, is compared under different DoS attack scenarios. It is shown that the dynamic performance of the power system is affected strongly if the adversaries launch DoS attacks before the dynamics of the power system converge.

A comprehensive survey on multimodal medical signals fusion for smart healthcare systems
Sentiment analysis on multi-view social data
Edge caching and computing in 5G for mobile AR/VR and tactile internet
As a result of increasing popularity of augmented reality and virtual reality (AR/VR) applications, there are significant efforts to bring AR/VR to mobile users. Parallel to the advances in AR/VR technologies, tactile internet is gaining interest from the research community. Both AR/VR and tactile internet applications require massive computational capability, high communication bandwidth, and ultra-low latency that cannot be provided with the current wireless mobile networks. By 2020, long term evolution (LTE) networks will start to be replaced by fifth generation (5G) networks. Edge caching and mobile edge computing are among the potential 5G technologies that bring content and computing resources close to the users, reducing latency and load on the backhaul. The aim of this survey is to present current state-of-the-art research on edge caching and computing with a focus on AR/VR applications and tactile internet and to discuss applications, opportunities and challenges in this emerging field.

A universal ontology for sensor networks data
In this paper, we present our work towards the development and evaluation of an ontology for searching distributed and heterogeneous sensor networks data. In particular, we propose a two layer prototype ontology that utilizes the IEEE Suggested Upper Merged Ontology (SUMO) as a root definition of general concepts and associations and two sub- ontologies: the sensor data sub-ontology and the sensor hierarchy sub-ontology. The proposed ontology was implemented using Protege 2000 and eventually evaluated using the RDQL language (RDF Data Query Language). The performance analysis demonstrated the ability of the ontology-based search to improve both the precision and recall rates and enhance the interoperability between different sensor networks domains through the use of the universal SUMO ontology.

AR-REHAB: An augmented reality framework for poststroke-patient rehabilitation
This paper proposes a novel approach based on augmented-reality (AR) technologies that can increase a stroke-patient's involvement in the rehabilitation process. The approach takes advantage of virtual-reality technologies and provides natural-force interaction with the daily environment by adopting a tangible-object concept. In our framework, the patient manipulates during the treatment session a tangible object that is tracked to measure her/his performance without the direct supervision of an occupational therapist. We called this framework AR-based REHABilitation. In this paper, we introduce the core architecture of the framework and its subsystems that provide more convenience to patients and therapists. We also present two exercises, a shelf exercise and a cup exercise, as examples and perform preliminary usability study. In addition, we introduce assessment measurements such as task-completion time, compactness of task, and speed of hand movement by capturing the patients' hand movements with the tangible object.

Cardio Twin: A Digital Twin of the human heart running on the edge
We present the Cardio Twin architecture for Ischemic Heart Disease (IHD) detection designed to run on the edge. We classify non-myocardial and myocardial conditions with a CCN. This CNN generates features from the electrocardiograms and performs the classification task. The database used is "PTB Diagnostic ECG Database" from Physio Bank and it comes from 200 different people. Each patient data sample was partitioned into 2.5 second windows for training. The implemented model achieved 85.77% accuracy and used 4.8 seconds for each sample classification. The results show that technology is ready to fully support demanding processes, such as Digital Twin, on the edge.

DONE