Aerial imagery pile burn detection using deep learning: The FLAME dataset
A review of AI-enabled routing protocols for UAV networks: Trends, challenges, and future outlook
An energy efficient framework for UAV-assisted millimeter wave 5G heterogeneous cellular networks
We study downlink transmission in a multi-band heterogeneous network comprising unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) small base stations and ground-based dual mode mmWave small cells within the coverage area of a microwave (<inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$\mu W$ </tex-math></inline-formula>) macro base station. We formulate a two-layer optimization framework to simultaneously find efficient coverage radius for the UAVs and energy efficient radio resource management for the network, subject to minimum quality-of-service and maximum transmission power constraints. The outer layer derives an optimal coverage radius/height for each UAV as a function of the maximum allowed path loss. The inner layer formulates an optimization problem to maximize the system energy efficiency (EE), defined as the ratio between the aggregate user data rate delivered by the system and its aggregate energy consumption (downlink transmission and circuit power). We demonstrate that at certain values of the target SINR <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$\tau $ </tex-math></inline-formula> introducing the UAV base stations doubles the EE. We also show that an increase in <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$\tau $ </tex-math></inline-formula> beyond an optimal EE point decreases the EE.

Wildfire monitoring in remote areas using autonomous unmanned aerial vehicles
In this paper, we propose a drone-based wildfire monitoring system for remote and hard-to-reach areas. This system utilizes autonomous unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) with the main advantage of providing on-demand monitoring service faster than the current approaches of using satellite images, manned aircraft and remotely controlled drones. Furthermore, using autonomous drones facilitates minimizing human intervention in risky wildfire zones. In particular, to develop a fully autonomous system, we propose a distributed leader-follower coalition formation model to cluster a set of drones into multiple coalitions that collectively cover the designated monitoring field. The coalition leader is a drone that employs observer drones potentially with different sensing and imaging capabilities to hover in circular paths and collect imagery information from the impacted areas. The objectives of the proposed system include: i) to cover the entire fire zone with a minimum number of drones, and ii) to minimize the energy consumption and latency of the available drones to fly to the fire zone. Simulation results confirm that the performance of the proposed system- without the need for inter-coalition communications- approaches that of a centrally-optimized system.

Distributed cooperative spectrum sharing in UAV networks using multi-agent reinforcement learning
In this paper, we develop a distributed mechanism for spectrum sharing among a network of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) and licensed terrestrial networks. This method can provide a practical solution for situations where the UAV network may need external spectrum when dealing with congested spectrum or need to change its operational frequency due to security threats. Here we study a scenario where the UAV network performs a remote sensing mission. In this model, the UAVs are categorized to two clusters of relaying and sensing UAVs. The relay UAVs provide a relaying service for a licensed network to obtain spectrum access for the rest of UAVs that perform the sensing task. We develop a distributed mechanism in which the UAVs locally decide whether they need to participate in relaying or sensing considering the fact that communications among UAVs may not be feasible or reliable. The UAVs learn the optimal task allocation using a distributed reinforcement learning algorithm. Convergence of the algorithm is discussed and simulation results are presented for different scenarios to verify the convergence.

Content delivery networks: State of the art, trends, and future roadmap
Wildland fire detection and monitoring using a drone-collected RGB/IR image dataset
Drone-based Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) provide an efficient means for early detection and monitoring of remote wildland fires due to their rapid deployment, low flight altitudes, high 3D maneuverability, and ever-expanding sensor capabilities. Recent sensor advancements have made side-by-side RGB/IR sensing feasible for UASs. The aggregation of optical and thermal images enables robust environmental observation, as the thermal feed provides information that would otherwise be obscured in a purely RGB setup, effectively "seeing through" thick smoke and tree occlusion. In this work, we present Fire detection and modeling: Aerial Multi-spectral image dataset (FLAME 2) [1], the first ever labeled collection of UAS-collected side-by-side RGB/IR aerial imagery of prescribed burns. Using FLAME 2, we then present two image-processing methodologies with Multi-modal Learning on our new dataset: (1) Deep Learning (DL)-based benchmarks for detecting fire and smoke frames with Transfer Learning and Feature Fusion. (2) an exemplary image-processing system cascaded in the DL-based classifier to perform fire localization. We show these two techniques achieve reasonable gains than either single-domain video inputs or training models from scratch in the fire detection task.

Maximizing energy efficiency of cognitive wireless sensor networks with constrained age of information
A cognitive wireless sensor network is considered, where a cluster of secondary sensors utilize channel vacancies of a primary network and transmit their measurement samples to a common sink node. We propose a joint framing and scheduling policy that optimizes energy efficiency of communication system under strict constraints on the expected age of information. The age of information is defined as the timespan from the sampling epoch to the successful delivery of the samples to the sink node including framing time, queuing time, waiting time for channel vacancies, and transmission time. First, we develop a number-based framing policy to determine the number of samples bundled into data packets with constant header sizes. Then, we quantify the impact of this policy on the age of information and communication energy efficiency by characterizing the utilized queuing dynamics, packet discard rate, and retransmission probability. The derived closed-form expressions for the age of information and energy efficiency are used to regularize packet lengths based on the current sampling rate, channel quality, and channel utilization rate by primary users. The proposed method can be used to develop low-cost and energy-efficient network of unlicensed sensors for delay sensitive applications such as body area sensor networks.

ECGNET: Learning where to attend for detection of atrial fibrillation with deep visual attention
The complexity of the patterns associated with atrial fibrillation (AF) and the high level of noise affecting these patterns have significantly limited the application of current signal processing and shallow machine learning approaches to accurately detect this condition. Deep neural networks have shown to be very powerful to learn the non-linear patterns in various problems such as computer vision tasks. While deep learning approaches have been utilized to learn complex patterns related to the presence of AF in electrocardiogram (ECG) signals, they can considerably benefit from knowing which parts of the signal is more important to focus on during learning. In this paper, we introduce a two-channel deep neural network to more accurately detect the presence of AF in the ECG signals. The first channel takes in an ECG signal and automatically learns where to attend for detection of AF. The second channel simultaneously takes in the same ECG signal to consider all features of the entire signal. Besides improving detection accuracy, this model can guide the physicians via visualization that what parts of the given ECG signal are important to attend while trying to detect atrial fibrillation. The experimental results confirm that the proposed model significantly improves the performance of AF detection on well-known MIT-BIH AF database with 5-s ECG segments (achieved a sensitivity of 99.53%, specificity of 99.26% and accuracy of 99.40%).

An autonomous spectrum management scheme for unmanned aerial vehicle networks in disaster relief operations
This paper studies the problem of spectrum shortage in an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) network during critical missions such as wildfire monitoring, search and rescue, and disaster monitoring. Such applications involve a high demand for high-throughput data transmissions such as real-time video-, image-, and voice- streaming where the assigned spectrum to the UAV network may not be adequate to provide the desired Quality of Service (QoS). In these scenarios, the aerial network can borrow an additional spectrum from the available terrestrial networks in trade of a relaying service for them. We propose a spectrum sharing model in which the UAVs are grouped into two classes of relaying UAVs that service the spectrum owner and the sensing UAVs that perform the disaster relief mission using the obtained spectrum. The operation of the UAV network is managed by a hierarchical mechanism in which a central controller assigns the tasks of the UAVs based on their resources and determine their operation region based on the level of priority of impacted areas and then the UAVs autonomously fine-tune their position using a model-free reinforcement learning algorithm to maximize the individual throughput and prolong their lifetime. We analyze the performance and the convergence for the proposed method analytically and with extensive simulations in different scenarios.

Smart heart monitoring: Early prediction of heart problems through predictive analysis of ECG signals
Health monitoring devices are integral parts of smart health in the era of smart connected communities. In recent years, remote heart monitoring systems are developed to harness advanced machine learning methods to identify heart disorders by processing electrocardiogram (ECG) signals. However, current technologies suffer from two important drawbacks: i) the lack of prediction capacity to predict heart abnormalities ahead of time, and ii) failure in capturing inter-patient variability. In this paper, we propose a novel two-step predictive framework for ECG signal processing, where a global classifier recognizes severe abnormalities (red alarms) by comparing the signal against a universal reference model. The seemingly normal signal samples undergo a subsequent deviation analysis and yellow alarms are called by identifying mild and yet informative signal morphology distortions comparing to the learned patient-specific baseline that can be indicative of upcoming heart conditions. To facilitate an accurate deviation analysis, a controlled nonlinear transformation with optimized parameters is proposed to increase the symmetry of signals for different abnormality classes in the feature space. The proposed method achieves a classification accuracy of 96.6% and provides a unique feature of predictive analysis by generating precaution warning messages about the elevated risk of heart abnormalities to take preventive actions according to physician orders. In particular, the chance of observing a severe problem (in terms of a red alarm) is raised by about 5% to 10% after observing a yellow alarm of the same type. The main goal of this technology is providing quality healthcare for elderly and high-risk heart-patients, however, the developed methodology is general and applicable to other biomedical signals such as EEG, Pleth, and PPG.

Dilated convolution and feature fusion SSD network for small object detection in remote sensing images
Noting the shortcomings of current methods in detecting small objects in image-based remote sensing applications, in this paper, we propose a novel implementation of single shot multibox detector (SSD) networks based on dilated convolution and feature fusion. We call this algorithm dilated convolution and feature fusion single shot multibox detector (DFSSD). This algorithm removes the random clipping steps of data preprocessing layers in conventional SSD networks and utilizes the structure of feature pyramid network (FPN) network to fuse the low-level feature map with high resolution and the high-level feature map with rich semantic information. It also enhances the receptive field of the third-level feature map of the DFSSD network by using dilated convolution. In the data processing step of the model, we use the image segmentation of the feature point region proposals to improve the training sample size. The mean average precision (mAP) value of the proposed DFSSD network, when tested on remote sensing datasets, achieves 76.51%, which is significantly higher than that of the SSD model (69.81%).

Predictive routing for dynamic UAV networks
The emerging Flying Ad-Hoc Networks (FANETs) provide efficient infrastructure solutions for a wide range of military and commercial applications. These networks are typically composed of high-speed Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) and form dynamic network topologies. As such, conventional routing algorithms do not efficiently accommodate these continued topology changes and exhibit poor delay performances. In this paper, we introduce an optimal routing algorithm for UAV networks with queued communication systems based on Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm as a primary step towards developing a fully predictive communication platform. The core idea is to incorporate the anticipated locations of intermediate nodes during a transmission session into the path selection criterion. We further evaluate the impact of measurement uncertainties on choosing the optimal path and on the resulting end-to-end delay. The simulation results confirm the superior delay performance of the proposed algorithm compared to the conventional routing algorithms. The enhancement is more significant, when the network size is larger, the relative node velocities are higher, and the average waiting times in transmit buffers are longer.

Optimizing the age of information for blockchain technology with applications to IoT sensors
Blockchain is an emerging technology that uses distributed ledgers for transparent, reliable, and traceable information exchange among network nodes. Blockchain and its 3rd generation Tangle-based implementations quickly extend their territory beyond crypto-currency to a broad range of applications using fee-less transactions over the Internet of things (IoT). However, this technology suffers from sluggishness in consensus-based validation of information that restricts its applicability to time-sensitive applications such as smart health. In this letter, we propose an optimized policy for sampling rate by IoT sensors that utilize blockchain and Tangle technologies for their transmission with the goal of minimizing the age of information (AoI) experienced by the end-users, considering both processing and networking resource constraints. Simulation results confirm the efficacy of the proposed algorithm compared to the current fixed-rate update policy. Further, a closed-form solution is obtained for the optimal sampling rate in a network of homogeneous IoT nodes as a benchmark system.

A unified framework for joint mobility prediction and object profiling of drones in UAV networks
In recent years, using a network of autonomous and cooperative unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) without command and communication from the ground station has become more imperative, particularly in search-and-rescue operations, disaster management, and other applications where human intervention is limited. In such scenarios, UAVs can make more efficient decisions if they acquire more information about the mobility, sensing and actuation capabilities of their neighbor nodes. In this study, we develop an unsupervised online learning algorithm for joint mobility prediction and object profiling of UAVs, to facilitate control and communication protocols. The proposed method not only predicts the future locations of the surrounding flying objects, but also classifies them into different groups with similar levels of maneuverability (e.g., rotatory and fixed-wing UAVs) without prior knowledge regarding these classes. This method is flexible in admitting new object types with unknown mobility profiles, and is thereby applicable to emerging flying ad-hoc networks (FANETs) with heterogeneous nodes.

Deep DIH: single-shot digital in-line holography reconstruction by deep learning
Digital in-line holography (DIH) is broadly used to reconstruct 3D shapes of microscopic objects from their 2D holograms. One of the technical challenges in the reconstruction stage is eliminating the twin image originating from the phase-conjugate wavefront. The twin image removal is typically formulated as a non-linear inverse problem since the scattering process involved in generating the hologram is irreversible. Conventional phase recovery methods rely on multiple holographic imaging at different distances from the object plane along with iterative algorithms. Recently, end-to-end deep learning (DL) methods are utilized to reconstruct the object wavefront (as a surrogate for the 3D structure of the object) directly from the single-shot in-line digital hologram. However, massive data pairs are required to train the utilize DL model for an acceptable reconstruction precision. In contrast to typical image processing problems, well-curated datasets for in-line digital holography do not exist. The trained models are also highly influenced by the objects’ morphological properties, hence can vary from one application to another. Therefore, data collection can be prohibitively laborious and time-consuming, as a critical drawback of using DL methods for DH. In this article, we propose a novel DL method that takes advantages of the main characteristic of auto-encoders for blind single-shot hologram reconstruction solely based on the captured sample and without the need for a large dataset of samples with available ground truth to train the model. The simulation results demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed method compared to the state-of-the-art methods used for single-shot hologram reconstruction.

Transfer learning for wildfire identification in UAV imagery
Due to Wildfire’s huge destructive impacts on agriculture and food production, wildlife habitat, climate, human life and ecosystem, timely discovery of fires enable swift response to fires before they go out of control, in order to minimize the resulting damage and impacts. One of the emerging technologies for fire monitoring is deploying Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, due to their high flexibility and maneuverability, less human risk, and on-demand high quality imaging capabilities. In order to realize a real-time system for fire detection and expansion analysis, fast and high-accuracy image-processing algorithms are required. Several studies have shown that deep learning methods can provide the most accurate response, however the training time can be prohibitively long, especially when using online learning for constant refinement of the developed model. Another challenge is the lack of large datasets for training a deep learning algorithm. In this respect, we propose to use a pretrained mobileNetV2 architecture to implement transfer learning, which requires a smaller dataset and reduces the computational complexity while not compromising the accuracy. In addition, we conduct an effective data augmentation pipeline to simulate some extreme scenarios, which could promise the robustness of our approach. The testing results illustrate that our method maintains a high identification accuracy in different situations - original dataset (99.7%), adding Gaussian blurred (95.3%), and additive Gaussian noise (99.3%) 1 2

A coalition formation approach to coordinated task allocation in heterogeneous UAV networks
The problem of adversary target detection and the subsequent task completion using a heterogeneous network of resource-constrained UAVs is considered. No prior knowledge about locations and required resources to identify these targets is available to the UAVs. In the proposed leader-follower coalition formation model, the UAV that first locates a target serves as the coalition leader and selects a group of follower UAVs to complete the task associated with the identified target. The goal of the coalition formation is to complete the designated tasks with minimal resource utilization. Another role of coalition members is to make the ground station aware of the detected adversary target by forwarding its signal to the station via a distributed cooperative relaying scheme. We also propose a reputation-based mechanism for coalition formation to monitor the cooperative behavior of the UAVs over the course of time and exclude potentially untrustworthy UAVs. Simulation results show the efficiency of the proposed method in forming optimal coalitions compared to alternative methods.

Fully-echoed Q-routing with simulated annealing inference for flying adhoc networks
Current networking protocols deem inefficient in accommodating the two key challenges of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) networks, namely the network connectivity loss and energy limitations. One approach to solve these issues is using learning-based routing protocols to make close-to-optimal local decisions by the network nodes, and Q-routing is a bold example of such protocols. However, the performance of the current implementations of Q-routing algorithms is not yet satisfactory, mainly due to the lack of adaptability to continued topology changes. In this paper, we propose a full-echo Q-routing algorithm with a self-adaptive learning rate that utilizes Simulated Annealing (SA) optimization to control the exploration rate of the algorithm through the temperature decline rate, which in turn is regulated by the experienced variation rate of the Q-values. Our results show that our method adapts to the network dynamicity without the need for manual re-initialization at transition points (abrupt network topology changes). Our method exhibits a reduction in the energy consumption ranging from 7% up to 82%, as well as a 2.6 fold gain in successful packet delivery rate, compared to the state of the art Q-routing protocols.

Fire frontline monitoring by enabling uav-based virtual reality with adaptive imaging rate
Recently, using drones for forest fire management has gained a lot of attention from the research community due to their advantages such as low operation and deployment cost, flexible mobility, and high-quality imaging. It also minimizes human intervention, especially in hard-to-reach areas where the use of ground-based infrastructure is troublesome. Drones can provide virtual reality to firefighters by collecting on-demand high-resolution images with adjustable zoom, focus, and perspective to improve fire control and eliminate human hazards. In this paper, we propose a novel model for fire expansion as well as a distributed algorithm for drones to relocate themselves towards the front-line of an expanding fire field. The proposed algorithm comprises a light-weight image processing for fire edge detection that is highly desirable over computational expensive deep learning methods for resource-constrained drones. The positioning algorithm includes motions tangential and normal to fire frontline to follow the fire expansion while keeping minimum pairwise distances for collision avoidance and non-overlapping imaging. We proposed an action-reward mechanism to adjust the drones’ speed and processing rate based on the fire expansion rate and the available onboard processing power. Simulations results are provided to support the efficacy of the proposed algorithm.

DONE