Financial time series forecasting with deep learning: A systematic literature review: 2005–2019
Context-aware computing, learning, and big data in internet of things: a survey
Internet of Things (IoT) has been growing rapidly due to recent advancements in communications and sensor technologies. Meanwhile, with this revolutionary transformation, researchers, implementers, deployers, and users are faced with many challenges. IoT is a complicated, crowded, and complex field; there are various types of devices, protocols, communication channels, architectures, middleware, and more. Standardization efforts are plenty, and this chaos will continue for quite some time. What is clear, on the other hand, is that IoT deployments are increasing with accelerating speed, and this trend will not stop in the near future. As the field grows in numbers and heterogeneity, “intelligence” becomes a focal point in IoT. Since data now becomes “big data,” understanding, learning, and reasoning with big data is paramount for the future success of IoT. One of the major problems in the path to intelligent IoT is understanding “context,” or making sense of the environment, situation, or status using data from sensors, and then acting accordingly in autonomous ways. This is called “context-aware computing,” and it now requires both sensing and, increasingly, learning, as IoT systems get more data and better learning from this big data. In this survey, we review the field, first, from a historical perspective, covering ubiquitous and pervasive computing, ambient intelligence, and wireless sensor networks, and then, move to context-aware computing studies. Finally, we review learning and big data studies related to IoT. We also identify the open issues and provide an insight for future study areas for IoT researchers.

Deep learning for financial applications: A survey
Algorithmic financial trading with deep convolutional neural networks: Time series to image conversion approach
Deep Convolutional Autoencoder for Radar-Based Classification of Similar Aided and Unaided Human Activities
Radar-based activity recognition is a problem that has been of great interest due to applications such as border control and security, pedestrian identification for automotive safety, and remote health monitoring. This paper seeks to show the efficacy of micro-Doppler analysis to distinguish even those gaits whose micro-Doppler signatures are not visually distinguishable. Moreover, a three-layer, deep convolutional autoencoder (CAE) is proposed, which utilizes unsupervised pretraining to initialize the weights in the subsequent convolutional layers. This architecture is shown to be more effective than other deep learning architectures, such as convolutional neural networks and autoencoders, as well as conventional classifiers employing predefined features, such as support vector machines (SVM), random forest, and extreme gradient boosting. Results show the performance of the proposed deep CAE yields a correct classification rate of 94.2% for micro-Doppler signatures of 12 different human activities measured indoors using a 4 GHz continuous wave radar—17.3% improvement over SVM.

Review of tool condition monitoring in machining and opportunities for deep learning
A deep learning based stock trading model with 2-D CNN trend detection
The success of convolutional neural networks in the field of computer vision has attracted the attention of many researchers from other fields. One of the research areas in which neural networks is actively used is financial forecasting. In this paper, we propose a novel method for predicting stock price movements using CNN. To avoid the high volatility of the market and to maximize the profit, ETFs are used as primary financial assets. We extract commonly used trend indicators and momentum indicators from financial time series data and use these as our features. Adopting a sliding window approach, we generate our images by taking snapshots that are bounded by the window over a daily period. We then perform daily predictions, namely, regression for predicting the ETF prices and classification for predicting the movement of the prices on the next day, which can be modified to estimate weekly or monthly trends. To increase the number of images, we use numerous ETFs. Finally, we evaluate our method by performing paper trading and calculating the final capital. We also compare our method's performance to commonly used classical trading strategies. Our results indicate that we can predict the next day's prices with 72% accuracy and end up with 5:1 of our initial capital, taking realistic values of transaction costs into account.

A Deep Neural-Network Based Stock Trading System Based on Evolutionary Optimized Technical Analysis Parameters
A real-time autonomous highway accident detection model based on big data processing and computational intelligence
Due to increasing urban population and growing number of motor vehicles, traffic congestion is becoming a major problem of the 21st century. One of the main reasons behind traffic congestion is accidents which can not only result in casualties and losses for the participants, but also in wasted and lost time for the others that are stuck behind the wheels. Early detection of an accident can save lives, provides quicker road openings, hence decreases wasted time and resources, and increases efficiency. In this study, we propose a preliminary real-time autonomous accident-detection system based on computational intelligence techniques. Istanbul City traffic-flow data for the year 2015 from various sensor locations are populated using big data processing methodologies. The extracted features are then fed into a nearest neighbor model, a regression tree, and a feed-forward neural network model. For the output, the possibility of an occurrence of an accident is predicted. The results indicate that even though the number of false alarms dominates the real accident cases, the system can still provide useful information that can be used for status verification and early reaction to possible accidents.

Weather Data Analysis and Sensor Fault Detection Using An Extended IoT Framework with Semantics, Big Data, and Machine Learning
In recent years, big data and Internet of Things (IoT) implementations started getting more attention. Researchers focused on developing big data analytics solutions using machine learning models. Machine learning is a rising trend in this field due to its ability to extract hidden features and patterns even in highly complex datasets. In this study, we used our Big Data IoT Framework in a weather data analysis use case. We implemented weather clustering and sensor anomaly detection using a publicly available dataset. We provided the implementation details of each framework layer (acquisition, ETL, data processing, learning and decision) for this particular use case. Our chosen learning model within the library is Scikit-Learn based k-means clustering. The data analysis results indicate that it is possible to extract meaningful information from a relatively complex dataset using our framework.

An artificial neural network-based stock trading system using technical analysis and big data framework
In this paper, a neural network-based stock price prediction and trading system using technical analysis indicators is presented. The model developed first converts the financial time series data into a series of buy-sell-hold trigger signals using the most commonly preferred technical analysis indicators. Then, a Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) artificial neural network (ANN) model is trained in the learning stage on the daily stock prices between 1997 and 2007 for all of the Dow30 stocks. Apache Spark big data framework is used in the training stage. The trained model is then tested with data from 2007 to 2017. The results indicate that by choosing the most appropriate technical indicators, the neural network model can achieve comparable results against the Buy and Hold strategy in most of the cases. Furthermore, fine tuning the technical indicators and/or optimization strategy can enhance the overall trading performance.

Estimation of the burned area in forest fires using computational intelligence techniques
Financial trading model with stock bar chart image time series with deep convolutional neural networks
Even though computational intelligence techniques have been extensively utilized in financial trading systems, almost all developed models use the time series data for price prediction or identifying buy-sell points. However, in this study we decided to use 2-D stock bar chart images directly without introducing any additional time series associated with the underlying stock. We propose a novel algorithmic trading model CNN-BI (Convolutional Neural Network with Bar Images) using a 2-D Convolutional Neural Network. We generated 2-D images of sliding windows of 30-day bar charts for Dow 30 stocks and trained a deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model for our algorithmic trading model. We tested our model separately between 2007-2012 and 2012-2017 for representing different market conditions. The results indicate that the model was able to outperform Buy and Hold strategy, especially in trendless or bear markets. Since this is a preliminary study and probably one of the first attempts using such an unconventional approach, there is always potential for improvement. Overall, the results are promising and the model might be integrated as part of an ensemble trading model combined with different strategies.

Deep learning of micro-Doppler features for aided and unaided gait recognition
Remote health monitoring is a topic that has gained increased interest as a way to improve the quality and reduce costs of health care, especially for the elderly. Falling is one of the leading causes for injury and death among the elderly, and gait recognition can be used to detect and monitor neuromuscular diseases as well as emergency events such as heart attack and seizures. In this work, the potential for radar to discriminate a large number of classes of human aided and unaided motion is demonstrated. Deep learning of micro-Doppler features is used with a 3-layer auto-encoder structure to achieve 89% correct classification, a 17% improvement in performance over the benchmark support vector machine classifier supplied with 127 pre-defined features.

Estimation of Hardgrove grindability index of Turkish coals by neural networks
Automated generation of attack graphs using NVD
Today's computer networks are prone to sophisticated multi-step, multi-host attacks. Common approaches of identifying vulnerabilities and analyzing the security of such networks with naive methods such as counting the number of vulnerabilities, or examining the vulnerabilities independently produces incomprehensive and limited security assessment results. On the other hand, attack graphs generated from the identified vulnerabilities at a network illustrate security risks via attack paths that are not apparent with the results of the primitive approaches. One common technique of generating attack graphs requires well established definitions and data of prerequisites and postconditions relating to the known vulnerabilities. A number of works suggest prerequisite and postcondition categorization schemes for software vulnerabilities. However, generating them in an automated way is an open issue. In this paper, we first define a model that evolves over the previous works to depict the requirements of exploiting vulnerabilities for generating attack graphs. Then we describe and compare the results of two different novel approaches (rule-based and machine learning-employed) that we propose for generating attacker privilege fields as prerequisites and postconditions from the National Vulnerability Database (NVD) in an automated way. We observe that prerequisite and postcondition privileges can be generated with overall accuracy rates of 88,8 % and 95,7 % with rule-based and machine learning-employed (Multilayer Perceptron) models respectively.

A novel chatter detection method for milling using deep convolution neural networks
Automated vehicle classification with image processing and computational intelligence
An extended iot framework with semantics, big data, and analytics
Many experts claim that data will be the most valuable commodity in the 21st century. At the same time, two of the most influential components of this era, Big Data and IoT are moving very fast, on a collision course with the methodologies that are associated with conventional data processing and database systems. As a result, new approaches like NoSQL databases, distributed architectures, etc. started appearing on the stage. Meanwhile, another technology, ontology and semantic data processing can be a very convenient catalyzer that might assist in smoothly providing this transformation process. In this paper, we propose a combined framework that brings Big Data, IoT, and semantic web together to build an augmented framework for this new era. We not only list the components of such a system and define the necessary bindings that needs to be integrated together, but also provide a realistic use case that demonstrates how the model can implement the desired functionality and achieve the goals of such a model.

Anomaly detection in vehicle traffic with image processing and machine learning
DONE