Thermal Covert Channels on Multi-core Platforms.
Side channels remain a challenge to information flow control and security in modern computing platforms. Resource partitioning techniques that minimise the number of shared resources among processes are often used to address this challenge. In this work, we focus on multicore platforms and we demonstrate that even seemingly strong isolation techniques based on dedicated cores can be circumvented through the use of thermal channels. Specifically, we show that the processor core temperature can be used both as a side channel as well as a covert communication channel even when the system implements strong spatial and temporal partitioning. Our experiments on an Intel Xeon server platform demonstrate covert thermal channels that achieve up to 12.5 bps and weak thermal side channels that can detect processes executed on neighbouring cores. This work therefore shows a limitation in the isolation that can be achieved on existing multi-core systems.

SPREE: Spoofing Resistant GPS Receiver
Global Positioning System (GPS) is used ubiquitously in a wide variety of applications ranging from navigation and tracking to modern smart grids and communication networks. However, it has been demonstrated that modern GPS receivers are vulnerable to signal spoofing attacks. For example, today it is possible to change the course of a ship or force a drone to land in a hostile area by simply spoofing GPS signals. Several countermeasures have been proposed in the past to detect GPS spoofing attacks. These counter-measures offer protection only against naive attackers. They are incapable of detecting strong attackers such as those capable of seamlessly taking over a GPS receiver, which is currently receiving legitimate satellite signals, and spoofing them to an arbitrary location. Also, there is no hardware platform that can be used to compare and evaluate the effectiveness of existing countermeasures in real-world scenarios. In this work, we present SPREE, which is, to the best of our knowledge, the first GPS receiver capable of detecting all spoofing attacks described in the literature. Our novel spoofing detection technique called auxiliary peak tracking enables detection of even a strong attacker capable of executing the seamless takeover attack. We implement and evaluate our receiver against three different sets of GPS signal traces: (i) a public repository of spoofing traces, (ii) signals collected through our own wardriving effort and (iii) using commercial GPS signal generators. Our evaluations show that SPREE constraints even a strong attacker (capable of seamless takeover attack) from spoofing the receiver to a location not more than 1 km away from its true location. This is a significant improvement over modern GPS receivers that can be spoofed to any arbitrary location. Finally, we release our implementation and datasets to the community for further research and development.

On Limitations of Friendly Jamming for Confidentiality
Wireless communication provides unique security challenges, but also enables novel ways to defend against attacks. In the past few years, a number of works discussed the use of friendly jamming to protect the confidentiality of the communicated data as well as to enable message authentication and access control. In this work, we analytically and experimentally evaluate the confidentiality that can be achieved by the use of friendly jamming, given an attacker with multiple receiving antennas. We construct a MIMO-based attack that allows the attacker to recover data protected by friendly jamming and refine the conditions for which this attack is most effective. Our attack shows that friendly jamming cannot provide strong confidentiality guarantees in all settings. We further test our attack in a setting where friendly jamming is used to protect the communication to medical implants.

Security of GPS/INS based on-road location tracking systems
Location information is critical to a wide variety of navigation and tracking applications. GPS, today's de-facto outdoor localization system has been shown to be vulnerable to signal spoofing attacks. Inertial Navigation Systems (INS) are emerging as a popular complementary system, especially in road transportation systems as they enable improved navigation and tracking as well as offer resilience to wireless signals spoofing and jamming attacks. In this paper, we evaluate the security guarantees of INS-aided GPS tracking and navigation for road transportation systems. We consider an adversary required to travel from a source location to a destination and monitored by an INS-aided GPS system. The goal of the adversary is to travel to alternate locations without being detected. We develop and evaluate algorithms that achieve this goal, providing the adversary significant latitude. Our algorithms build a graph model for a given road network and enable us to derive potential destinations an attacker can reach without raising alarms even with the INS-aided GPS tracking and navigation system. The algorithms render the gyroscope and accelerometer sensors useless as they generate road trajectories indistinguishable from plausible paths (both in terms of turn angles and roads curvature). We also design, build and demonstrate that the magnetometer can be actively spoofed using a combination of carefully controlled coils. To experimentally demonstrate and evaluate the feasibility of the attack in real-world, we implement a first real-time integrated GPS/INS spoofer that accounts for traffic fluidity, congestion, lights, and dynamically generates corresponding spoofing signals. Furthermore, we evaluate our attack on ten different cities using driving traces and publicly available city plans. Our evaluations show that it is possible for an attacker to reach destinations that are as far as 30 km away from the actual destination without being detected. We also show that it is possible for the adversary to reach almost 60--80% of possible points within the target region in some cities. Such results are only a lower-bound, as an adversary can adjust our parameters to spend more resources (e.g., time) on the target source/destination than we did for our performance evaluations of thousands of paths. We propose countermeasures that limit an attacker's ability, without the need for any hardware modifications. Our system can be used as the foundation for countering such attacks, both detecting and recommending paths that are difficult to spoof.

Are we really close? Verifying proximity in wireless systems
Current proximity verification and ranging systems are prone to distance modification attacks that can lead to loss of property or even human life. The authors survey the various approaches currently used to determine proximity and analyze their resilience against distance modification attacks. Drawing on these observations, they offer suggestions for design requirements that might help systems prove proximity with high-security guarantees.

Short paper: detection of GPS spoofing attacks in power grids
Power companies are deploying a multitude of sensors to monitor the energy grid. Measurements at different locations should be aligned in time to obtain the global state of the grid, and the industry therefore uses GPS as a common clock source. However, these sensors are exposed to GPS time spoofing attacks that cause misaligned aggregated measurements, leading to inaccurate monitoring that affects power stability and line fault contingencies. In this paper, we analyze the resilience of phasor measurement sensors, which record voltages and currents, to GPS spoofing performed by an adversary external to the system. We propose a solution that leverages the characteristics of multiple sensors in the power grid to limit the feasibility of such attacks. In order to increase the robustness of wide-area power grid monitoring, we evaluate mechanisms that allow collaboration among GPS receivers to detect spoofing attacks. We apply multilateration techniques to allow a set of GPS receivers to locate a false GPS signal source. Using simulations, we show that receivers sharing a local clock can locate nearby spoofing adversaries with sufficient confidence.

Investigation of multi-device location spoofing attacks on air traffic control and possible countermeasures
Multilateration techniques have been proposed to verify the integrity of unprotected location claims in wireless localization systems. A common assumption is that the adversary is equipped with only a single device from which it transmits location spoofing signals. In this paper, we consider a more advanced model where the attacker is equipped with multiple devices and performs a geographically distributed coordinated attack on the multilateration system. The feasibility of a distributed multi-device attack is demonstrated experimentally with a self-developed attack implementation based on multiple COTS software-defined radio (SDR) devices. We launch an attack against the OpenSky Network, an air traffic surveillance system that implements a time-difference-of-arrival (TDoA) multi-lateration method for aircraft localization based on ADS-B signals. Our experiments show that the timing errors for distributed spoofed signals are indistinguishable from the multilateration errors of legitimate aircraft signals, indicating that the threat of multi-device spoofing attacks is real in this and other similar systems. In the second part of this work, we investigate physical-layer features that could be used to detect multi-device attacks. We show that the frequency offset and transient phase noise of the attacker's radio devices can be exploited to discriminate between a received signal that has been transmitted by a single (legitimate) transponder or by multiple (malicious) spoofing sources. Based on that, we devise a multi-device spoofing detection system that achieves zero false positives and a false negative rate below 1%.

Design and implementation of a terrorist fraud resilient distance bounding system
On the Security of Carrier Phase-based Ranging
Wireless attacks on aircraft landing systems
Modern aircraft heavily rely on several wireless technologies for communications, control, and navigation. In this work, we demonstrate the vulnerability of aircraft instrument landing systems to wireless attacks. We show that it is possible to fully and in finegrain control the course deviation indicator, as displayed by the ILS receiver, in real-time, and demonstrate it on aviation-grade ILS receivers. We develop a tightly-controlled closed-loop ILS spoofer that autonomously adjusts the adversary's transmitted signals based on the aircraft's GPS location to cause an undetected off-runway landing. We demonstrate the integrated attack on an FAA certified flight-simulator (X-Plane)'s AI-based auto-land feature and show success rate with offset touchdowns of 18 meters to over 50 meters.

Physical-layer attacks on chirp-based ranging systems
Chirp signals have been extensively used in radar and sonar systems to determine distance, velocity and angular position of objects and in wireless communications as a spread spectrum technique to provide robustness and high processing gain. Recently, several standards have adopted chirp spread spectrum (CSS) as an underlying physical-layer scheme for precise, low-power and low-complexity real-time localization. While CSS-based ranging and localization solutions have been implemented and deployed, their security has so far not been analyzed.
 In this work, we analyze CSS-based ranging and localization systems. We focus on distance decreasing relay attacks that have proven detrimental for the security of proximity-based access control systems (e.g., passive vehicle keyless entry and start systems). We describe a set of distance decreasing attacks realizations and verify their feasibility by simulations and experiments on a commercial ranging system. Our results demonstrate that an attacker is able to effectively reduce the distance measured by chirp-based ranging systems from 150 m to 600 m depending on chirp configuration. Finally, we discuss possible countermeasures against these attacks.

Semperfi: Anti-spoofing gps receiver for uavs
—It is well-known that GPS is vulnerable to signal spoofing attacks. Although several spoofing detection techniques exist, they are incapable of mitigation and recovery from stealthy attackers. In this work, we present SemperFi, a single antenna GPS receiver capable of tracking legitimate GPS satellite signals and estimating the true location even against strong adversaries. Our design leverages a combination of the Extended Kalman Filter based GPS failsafe mechanism built into majority of UAVs and a custom designed legitimate signal retriever module to detect and autonomously recover from majority of spoofing attacks. We develop algorithms to carefully synthesize recovery signals and extend the successive interference cancellation technique to preserve the legitimate signal’s ToA, while eliminating the attacker’s signal. For strong adversaries capable of stealthy and seamless takeover, SemperFi uses brief maneuvers designed to exploit the short-term stability of inertial sensors and identify stealthy spoofing attacks. We implement SemperFi in GNSS-SDR, an open-source software-defined GNSS receiver, and evaluate its performance using UAV simulators, real drones, a variety of real-world GPS datasets, as well as on various embedded platforms. Our evaluation results indicate that in many scenarios, SemperFi can identify adversarial peaks by executing flight patterns less than 100 m long and recover the true location within 0.54 s (Jetson Xavier). We show that our receiver is secure against both naive and stealthy spoofers who exploit inertial sensor errors and execute seamless takeover attacks. Furthermore, we design SemperFi as a pluggable module capable of generating a spoofer-free GPS signal for processing on any commercial-off-the-shelf GPS receiver available today. Finally, we release our implementation to the community for usage and further research.

An Experimental Study of {GPS} Spoofing and Takeover Attacks on {UAVs}
Today, there is limited knowledge about the behavior of UAVs under GPS spoofing attacks in a real-world environment, in particular considering the interplay between the UAV’s software as well as other equipped navigation aids and vision sensors. This work aims to understand the feasibility and requirements of fully controlling a UAV’s movements by spoofing GPS signals alone. We enumerate the challenges in accomplishing a complete UAV takeover through GPS spoofing and controlling it without crashing. We design and implement a Real-time GPS Signal Generator (RtGSG) that can be configured to generate any arbitrary trajectory and is capable of making changes to GPS signals in real-time through user input, e.g., using a keyboard or joystick. We evaluate RtGSG on popular commercial UAVs from DJI and Autel through over-the-air spoofing experiments in a controlled chamber. We explore generic and UAV-specific GPS spoofing strategies in order to best achieve complete maneuvering control (e.g., velocity and direction). This work highlights that, although COTS UAVs remain vulnerable to GPS spoofing attacks, a complete takeover and control of the UAV requires careful manipulation of the spoofing signals in real-time. Finally, we release our implementation to the scientific community for further research.

On the Robustness of Wi-Fi Deauthentication Countermeasures
With the introduction of WPA3 and Wi-Fi 6, an increased usage of Wi-Fi Management Frame Protection (MFP) is expected. Wi-Fi MFP, defined in IEEE 802.11w, protects robust management frames by providing data confidentiality, integrity, origin authenticity, and replay protection. One of its key goals is to prevent deauthentication attacks in which an adversary forcibly disconnects a client from the network. In this paper, we inspect the standard and its implementations for their robustness and protection against deauthentication attacks. In our standard analysis, we inspect the rules for processing robust management frames on their completeness, consistency, and security, leading to the discovery of unspecified cases, contradictory rules, and revealed insecure rules that lead to new denial-of-service vulnerabilities. We then inspect implementations and identify vulnerabilities in clients and access points running on the latest versions of the Linux kernel, hostap, IWD, Apple (i.e., macOS, iOS, iPadOS), Windows, and Android. Altogether, these vulnerabilities allow an adversary to disconnect any client from personal and enterprise networks despite the usage of MFP. Our work highlights that management frame protection is insufficient to prevent deauthentication attacks, and therefore more care is needed to mitigate attacks of this kind. In order to address the identified shortcomings, we worked with industry partners to propose updates to the IEEE 802.11 standard.

I Send, Therefore I Leak: Information Leakage in Low-Power Wide Area Networks
Low-power wide area networks (LPWANs), such as LoRa, are fast emerging as the preferred networking technology for large-scale Internet of Things deployments (e.g., smart cities). Due to long communication range and ultra low power consumption, LPWAN-enabled sensors are today being deployed in a variety of application scenarios where sensitive information is wirelessly transmitted. In this work, we study the privacy guarantees of LPWANs, in particular LoRa. We show that, although the event-based duty cycling of radio communication, i.e., transmission of radio signals only when an event occurs, saves power, it inherently leaks information. This information leakage is independent of the implemented crypto primitives. We identify two types of information leakage and show that it is hard to completely prevent leakage without incurring significant additional communication and computation costs.

Enabling trusted scheduling in embedded systems
The growing complexity and increased networking of security and safety-critical systems expose them to the risk of adversarial compromise through remote attacks. These attacks can result in full system compromise, but often the attacker gains control only over some system components (e.g., a peripheral) and over some applications running on the system. We consider the latter scenario and focus on enabling on-schedule execution of critical applications that are running on a partially compromised system --- we call this trusted scheduling. We identify the essential properties needed for the realization of a trusted scheduling system and we design an embedded system that achieves these properties. We show that our system protects not only against misbehaving applications but also against attacks by compromised peripherals. We evaluate the feasibility and performance of our system through a prototype implementation based on the AVR ATmega103 microcontroller.

Let numbers tell the tale: measuring security trends in wi-fi networks and best practices
Motivated by the recent push towards adopting new standards and the discovery of numerous vulnerabilities in both new and old protocols, this paper analyzes the security of Wi-Fi networks. Our analysis is based on publicly available datasets and our own survey covering 250,137 networks across four countries in three continents. We present several key insights, including the continued use of outdated security configurations and vulnerable protocols, the adoption rates of modern protocols, the increasing presence of mesh networks as part of smart city infrastructure, and the vast differences depending on the surveyed geographic region and frequency spectrum. Additionally, we identify and improve upon shortcomings in previous surveys, and recommend best practices for future surveying. In summary, our work provides a more fine-grained understanding on Wi-Fi network security in the real-world. Finally, we publish our tools used for extracting security statistics, and make all anonymized datasets available to other researchers.

Proximity Verification for Contactless Access Control and Authentication Systems
Today, contactless smart cards are used to provide physical access control and authentication in a wide variety of applications. Prior research have demonstrated the vulnerability of contactless smart cards to relay attacks. For example, an attacker can relay the communication between the card reader and the smart card to steal a car or pay for goods in a supermarket. To solve this problem, smart cards need to be enhanced with secure proximity verification, i.e., distance bounding, which enables the card reader and the card to verify their mutual distance. However, existing technologies do not support the deployment of distance bounding in such systems: NFC cannot provide sufficient distance resolution, and hardware complexity of the proposed (e.g., UWB-based) distance bounding radios prevents their use in contactless smart cards. In this work, we propose a novel distance bounding system specifically designed for short-range contactless access control and authentication applications. Our system combines frequency modulated continuous wave (FMCW) and backscatter communication. The use of backscatter communication enables low-complexity, power-efficient design of the prover which is critical for contactless smart cards. In addition, our distance bounding system enables the implementation of a majority of distance bounding protocols developed in prior art. We analyze our system against various attack scenarios and show that it offers strong security guarantees. Additionally, we evaluate our system's communication and distance measurement characteristics using a prototype implementation.

Practical Side-Channel Attacks against WPA-TKIP
We measure the usage of cipher suites in protected Wi-Fi networks, and do this for several distinct geographic areas. Surprisingly, we found that 44.81% of protected networks still support the old WPA-TKIP cipher. Motivated by this, we systematically analyze the security of several implementations of WPA-TKIP, and present novel side-channel attacks against them. The presented attacks bypass existing countermeasures and recover the Michael message authentication key in 1 to 4 minutes. Using this key, an adversary can then decrypt and inject network traffic. In contrast, previous attacks needed 7 to 8 minutes. These results stress the urgent need to stop using WPA-TKIP.

Here, there, and everywhere: security analysis of wi-fi fine timing measurement
Today, an increasing number of applications rely on location and proximity information to deliver services. With the introduction of Wi-Fi Fine Timing Measurement (FTM) in the IEEE 802.11-2016 standard, Wi-Fi derived location and proximity information will play a key role in many safety- and security-critical applications. For example, Wi-Fi FTM is adopted in Wi-Fi Aware where it enables geo-fencing and mobile identification. In this paper, we perform the first security analysis of Wi-Fi FTM and analyze its security guarantees across the logical and physical layers. We find various weaknesses that enable an attacker to introduce distance reductions and enlargements to any arbitrary attacker-chosen value, requiring commodity hardware only. We perform an evaluation using commercial access points, smartphones, and off-the-shelf Wi-Fi cards, and show that an attacker can manipulate distances with meter-level precision. Furthermore, we highlight the distance manipulation attacks which are independent of any higher-layer cryptographic protection, exposing fundamental limitations to achieving secure distance measurements in the current standard. Finally, we present security recommendations for the design and implementation of Wi-Fi FTM and next-generation positioning protocols.

DONE