Explicit feedback meet with implicit feedback in GPMF: a generalized probabilistic matrix factorization model for recommendation
Modeling broadcasting using omnidirectional and directional antenna in delay tolerant networks as an epidemic dynamics
We study broadcasting of information in a system of moving agents equipped with omnidirectional as well as directional antenna. The agent communication protocol is inspired by the classical SIRS epidemics dynamics. We assume that the antennas of all agents have a fixed transmitting power, while signal reception only occurs when the receivers sense signals with power exceeding a certain threshold. Thus, information exchange is a local phenomenon which depends on the relative distance and antenna orientation between the transmitting and the receiving agent. We derive an expression for the mean broadcasting time and study the information dissemination robustness of the system using elements of classical epidemiology and physics. In particular, we show that the mean broadcasting time depends upon ¿ which quantifies the area the radiation pattern of the antenna sweeps as it moves. We report three important observations (a) directional antennas perform better than omnidirectional antennas, (b) directional antennas whose beam-width is narrower perform even better, and (c) the performance enhances a lot if directional antennas rotate. These behaviors can be understood in the light of the reported analytical findings.

The frequent items problem in online streaming under various performance measures
In this paper, we strengthen the competitive analysis results obtained for a fundamental online streaming problem, the Frequent Items Problem. Additionally, we contribute with a more detailed analysis of this problem, using alternative performance measures, supplementing the insight gained from competitive analysis. The results also contribute to the general study of performance measures for online algorithms. It has long been known that competitive analysis suffers from drawbacks in certain situations, and many alternative measures have been proposed. However, more systematic comparative studies of performance measures have been initiated recently, and we continue this work, using competitive analysis, relative interval analysis, and relative worst order analysis on the Frequent Items Problem.

Deep collaborative filtering with social promoter score-based user-item interaction: a new perspective in recommendation
Smartmixmodel: machine learning-based vulnerability detection of solidity smart contracts
The growing popularity of Ethereum and Solidity smart contracts makes them attractive targets for security threats and attacks. Even though researchers have been dedicating substantial efforts in developing machine learning-based vulnerability detection models for Solidity smart contracts, the models achieved considerably lower accuracy due to shallow coverage of the feature space. In this paper, we introduce SmartMixModel, an improved vulnerability detection model considering an expanded feature space covering both the source- and byte-codes of the Solidity smart contracts. In particular, our contribution in this paper is threefold. First, we collect close to seventy thousand real-world Solidity smart contracts deployed on the Ethereum mainnet and employ the SmartCheck tool to label them considering ten types of vulnerabilities. Next, we generate a mixed-level embedding feature space considering both the high-level syntactic features of the source codes and the low-level features extracted from the compiled byte codes. Finally, we train various Machine Learning and Deep Learning models on our dataset balanced with SMOTETomek. We observe an improved detection performance compared to the state-of-the-art models, achieving the highest Micro-F1 of 98.34%, Macro-F1 of 98.20%, maximum F1-score rate of 99%, and maximum AUROC of 99.60% in the case of XGBoost classifier.

Modeling discrete combinatorial systems as alphabetic bipartite networks: Theory and applications
Genes and human languages are discrete combinatorial systems (DCSs), in which the basic building blocks are finite sets of elementary units: nucleotides or codons in a DNA sequence, and letters or words in a language. Different combinations of these finite units give rise to potentially infinite numbers of genes or sentences. This type of DCSs can be represented as an alphabetic bipartite network (ABN) where there are two kinds of nodes, one type represents the elementary units while the other type represents their combinations. Here, we extend and generalize recent analytical findings for ABNs derived in [Peruani, Europhys. Lett. 79, 28001 (2007)] and empirically investigate two real world systems in terms of ABNs, the codon gene and the phoneme-language network. The one-mode projections onto the elementary basic units are also studied theoretically as well as in real world ABNs. We propose the use of ABNs as a means for inferring the mechanisms underlying the growth of real world DCSs.

Graph neural networks for heterogeneous trust based social recommendation
In the current research, Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) play a decisive role in learning from network data structure. In a social recommender system, GNNs have a significant perspective to integrate the structure of a customer-customer social network and the customer-product bipartite network. Most of the existing trust-based social recommendation systems overlook heterogeneous trust relations among customers and heterogeneous interactions between customers and products. However, this is very challenging to capture these heterogeneous information. To address this challenge, we propose an approach to evaluate the authenticity of reviews written by customers on products. Varying authenticity introduces the heterogeneity in trust relations among customers and interactions between customers and products. This authenticity defines a customer's characteristic as a reviewer, whether the customer is reliable or biased. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work which includes authenticity of reviews and customers to evaluate trust relationships and interactions. We develop a novel Graph Neural Network architecture for Trust-based Social Recommendation (GNNTSR) that systematically models two networks, i.e., customer-customer social network and customer-product bipartite network, and integrates heterogeneous trust and interaction. Extensive experiments are performed on real datasets, and empirical results show our model improves over the current best baseline by 2.16 - 5.74%.

Explicit feedbacks meet with implicit feedbacks: a combined approach for recommendation system
A comparison of performance measures via online search
Network promoter score (NePS): An indicator of product sales in E-commerce retailing sector
Rating prediction with review network feedback: a new direction in recommendation
Recommendation systems usually make a personalized recommendation with explicit feedback (i.e., ratings, reviews, and description on products) or implicit feedback (i.e., searching activity, clicking products, and viewing products). Implicit feedback indicates a customer’s preferences, and explicit feedback indicates the satisfaction level from the purchased products. All these feedbacks are direct and generated by individual customers. Interpersonal relations or interactions among customers can be regarded as indirect feedback that can influence customers greatly. We introduce a new class of feedback named review network feedback to bridge this gap. This feedback is based on the concept of a review network where customers are nodes and their interaction in terms of reviewing the same product creates the edges. Review network feedback embodied the reliability and positional influence of customers in their review network. Extensive experiments on Amazon.com online review datasets establish the superiority of our model over popular baselines when we consider review network feedback.

Heterogeneous trust-based social recommendation via reliable and informative motif-based attention
Recently, social recommender systems are promising to enhance the quality of recommendations by integrating user-user social networks and user-item bipartite networks. However, there are very little success in that direction. Pessimistic findings are ascribed mainly to three factors. (1) Very few works focus on the identification of implicit neighbors to overcome the sparsity problem of explicit links. Furthermore, these works do not con-sider higher-order and complex patterns of interactivity among users. (2) Very less number of trust-based social recommender systems integrate heterogeneous trust relationships, and this het-erogeneity is considered for explicit social links only. Moreover, these works ignore user-user heterogeneous trust relationships of higher-order network structure and user-item heterogeneous interactivity. (3) Existing works overlook the reliability (or lack of that) problem of links in higher-order and complex patterns of interactivity. To address the above mentioned challenges, we develop, a Graph $\bar{C}$ onvolutional $\bar{N}$ etworks via $\bar{R}$ eliable and $\bar{I}$ nformative $\bar{M}$ otif-based Attention Model (CNRIM). To the best of our knowledge, it is the first work that investigates user-user heterogeneous trust relationships and user-item heterogeneous interactivity via reliable, informative motif-based attention mech-anisms. Varying reliability and informative motifs introduce the heterogeneity. The experiments on publicly available real-world datasets, and empirical analyses present the superiority of our model over popular baselines.

A comparison of performance measures via online search
A general growth model for online emerging user–object bipartite networks
Blockchain domain-specific languages: survey, classification, and comparison
In this paper, we provide a comprehensive survey of the state-of-the-art blockchain DSLs introduced in the literature since the beginning of Blockchain 2.0 era. To this end, we conduct a detailed comparative analysis among the DSLs in terms of a number of parameters, such as Targeted Domain Parameters, Development Stage Parameters, Languages Attribute Parameters, and Functionality Parameters. Moreover, We classify the DSLs according to their target application domains, highlighting their strengths and weaknesses through a brief description for each of them. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive survey of blockchain DSLs which aims to provide the researchers and practitioners a well-informed guidance to choose right DSL to develop their applications on a given blockchain platform.

Social promoter score (sps) and review network: A method and a tool for predicting financial health of an online shopping brand
The conventional way of summarizing ratings or sentiment of reviews of customers on products of an online shopping brand are not sufficient to evaluate the financial health of that brand. It overlooks the social standing and influence of individual customers. In this paper, we have proposed a tool named as Review Network for measuring the influence of customers in online merchandise sites like Amazon.com. Using this measured influence, we have proposed a method that evaluates loyalty of customers of a brand based on their ratings and sentiments of their reviews collected from online merchandise sites. Review network of a brand is built from all the reviews of all the products from that brand where nodes are customers and an edge is created if a customer becomes a potential reader of a review written by another customer. The centrality of a customer in that review network represents her influence. Our proposed method named as Social Promoter Score combines loyalty and centrality of all customers of a brand. We have compared our method with a baseline approach based on the concept of Net Promoter Score . We have applied Social Promoter Score on Amazon.com review data set of some well-known brands. Results show that Social Promoter Score predicts financial health of a brand in terms of future sales much better than baseline method. We have noticed that in general effects of Social Promoter Score reflect on the product sales in one to five months.

Alphabetic bipartite network (α-bin): Theory and case study
Recently, much attention has been paid in analyzing and modeling bipartite network (BNW) due to its importance in many fields like information science, biology, social science, economics. Here we have emphasized on growth of a special type of BNW where the number of nodes in one set is almost fixed. This type of systems can be represented as an Alphabetic Bipartite Network (α-BiN) where there are two kinds of nodes representing the elementary units and their combinations, respectively [5]. There is an edge between a node corresponding to an elementary unit u and a node corresponding to a particular combination v if u is present in v. The partition consisting of the nodes representing elementary units is fixed, while the other partition is allowed to grow unboundedly. In this paper we reveal some characterizations of α-BiN growth and give a real world example of α-BiN. We have done extensive experiments by means of computer simulations of different growth models of α-BiN to characterize them. We present a practical example of this type of networks, i.e. protein protein complex network where set of proteins are fixed and set of complexes are growing.

Fusiondeepmf: A dual embedding based deep fusion model for recommendation
Traditional Collaborative Filtering (CF) based methods are applied to understand the personal preferences of users/customers for items or products from the rating matrix. Usually, the rating matrix is sparse in nature. So there are some improved variants of the CF method that apply the increasing amount of side information to handle the sparsity problem. Only linear kernel or only non-linear kernel is applied in most of the available recommendation-related work to understand user-item latent feature embeddings from data. Only linear kernel or only non-linear kernel is not sufficient to learn complex user-item features from side information of users. Recently, some researchers have focused on hybrid models that learn some features with non-linear kernels and some other features with linear kernels. But it is very difficult to understand which features can be learned accurately with linear kernels or with non-linear kernels. To overcome this problem, we propose a novel deep fusion model named FusionDeepMF and the novel attempts of this model are i) learning user-item rating matrix and side information through linear and non-linear kernel simultaneously, ii) application of a tuning parameter determining the trade-off between the dual embeddings that are generated from linear and non-linear kernels. Extensive experiments on online review datasets establish that FusionDeepMF can be remarkably futuristic compared to other baseline approaches. Empirical evidence also shows that FusionDeepMF achieves better performances compared to the linear kernels of Matrix Factorization (MF) and the non-linear kernels of Multi-layer Perceptron (MLP).

WSAGrad: a novel adaptive gradient based method
Modeling new and old editors’ behaviors in different languages of wikipedia
DONE