A survey on homomorphic encryption schemes: Theory and implementation
UAV-enabled intelligent transportation systems for the smart city: Applications and challenges
There could be no smart city without a reliable and efficient transportation system. This necessity makes the ITS a key component of any smart city concept. While legacy ITS technologies are deployed worldwide in smart cities, enabling the next generation of ITS relies on effective integration of connected and autonomous vehicles, the two technologies that are under wide field testing in many cities around the world. Even though these two emerging technologies are crucial in enabling fully automated transportation systems, there is still a significant need to automate other road and transportation components. To this end, due to their mobility, autonomous operation, and communication/processing capabilities, UAVs are envisaged in many ITS application domains. This article describes the possible ITS applications that can use UAVs, and highlights the potential and challenges for UAV-enabled ITS for next-generation smart cities.

A survey on smart grid cyber-physical system testbeds
An increasing interest is emerging on the development of smart grid cyber-physical system testbeds. As new communication and information technologies emerge, innovative cyber-physical system testbeds need to leverage realistic and scalable platforms. Indeed, the interdisciplinary structure of the smart grid concept compels heterogeneous testbeds with different capabilities. There is a significant need to evaluate new concepts and vulnerabilities as opposed to counting on solely simulation studies especially using hardware-in-the-loop test platforms. In this paper, we present a comprehensive survey on cyber-physical smart grid testbeds aiming to provide a taxonomy and insightful guidelines for the development as well as to identify the key features and design decisions while developing future smart grid testbeds. First, this survey provides a four step taxonomy based on smart grid domains, research goals, test platforms, and communication infrastructure. Then, we introduce an overview with a detailed discussion and an evaluation on existing testbeds from the literature. Finally, we conclude this paper with a look on future trends and developments in cyber-physical smart grid testbed research.

Peek-a-boo: I see your smart home activities, even encrypted!
A myriad of IoT devices such as bulbs, switches, speakers in a smart home environment allow users to easily control the physical world around them and facilitate their living styles through the sensors already embedded in these devices. Sensor data contains a lot of sensitive information about the user and devices. However, an attacker inside or near a smart home environment can potentially exploit the innate wireless medium used by these devices to exfiltrate sensitive information from the encrypted payload (i.e., sensor data) about the users and their activities, invading user privacy. With this in mind, in this work, we introduce a novel multi-stage privacy attack against user privacy in a smart environment. It is realized utilizing state-of-the-art machine-learning approaches for detecting and identifying the types of IoT devices, their states, and ongoing user activities in a cascading style by only passively sniffing the network traffic from smart home devices and sensors. The attack effectively works on both encrypted and unencrypted communications. We evaluate the efficiency of the attack with real measurements from an extensive set of popular off-the-shelf smart home IoT devices utilizing a set of diverse network protocols like WiFi, ZigBee, and BLE. Our results show that an adversary passively sniffing the traffic can achieve very high accuracy (above 90%) in identifying the state and actions of targeted smart home devices and their users. To protect against this privacy leakage, we also propose a countermeasure based on generating spoofed traffic to hide the device states and demonstrate that it provides better protection than existing solutions.

Block4forensic: An integrated lightweight blockchain framework for forensics applications of connected vehicles
Today's vehicles are becoming cyber-physical systems that not only communicate with other vehicles but also gather various information from hundreds of sensors within them. These developments help create smart and connected (e.g., self-driving) vehicles that will introduce significant information to drivers, manufacturers, insurance companies, and maintenance service providers for various applications. One such application that is becoming crucial with the introduction of self-driving cars is forensic analysis of traffic accidents. The utilization of vehicle-related data can be instrumental in post-accident scenarios to discover the faulty party, particularly for self-driving vehicles. With the opportunity of being able to access various information in cars, we propose a permissioned blockchain framework among the various elements involved to manage the collected vehicle-related data. Specifically, we first integrate vehicular public key infrastructure (VPKI) to the proposed blockchain to provide membership establishment and privacy. Next, we design a fragmented ledger that will store detailed data related to vehicles such as maintenance information/ history, car diagnosis reports, and so on. The proposed forensic framework enables trustless, traceable, and privacy-aware post-accident analysis with minimal storage and processing overhead.

Drones for smart cities: Issues in cybersecurity, privacy, and public safety
It is expected that drones will take a major role in the connected smart cities of the future. They will be delivering goods and merchandise, serving as mobile hot spots for broadband wireless access, and maintaining surveillance and security of smart cities. However, pervasive use of drones for future smart cities also brings together several technical and societal concerns and challenges that needs to be addressed, including in the areas of cybersecurity, privacy, and public safety. Drones, while can be used for the betterment of the society, can also be used by malicious entities to conduct physical and cyber attacks, and threaten the society. The goal of this survey paper is to review various aspects of drones in future smart cities, relating to cybersecurity, privacy, and public safety. We will also provide representative results on cyber attacks using drones.

A survey on sensor-based threats and attacks to smart devices and applications
Modern electronic devices have become “smart” as well as omnipresent in our day-to-day lives. From small household devices to large industrial machines, smart devices have become very popular in every possible application domain. Smart devices in our homes, offices, buildings, and cities can connect with other devices as well as with the physical world around them. This increasing popularity has also placed smart devices as the center of attention among attackers. Already, several types of malicious activities exist that attempt to compromise the security and privacy of smart devices. One interesting and noteworthy emerging threat vector is the attacks that abuse the use of sensors on smart devices. Smart devices are vulnerable to sensor-based threats and attacks due to the lack of proper security mechanisms available to control the use of sensors by installed apps. By exploiting the sensors (e.g., accelerometer, gyroscope, microphone, light sensor, etc.) on a smart device, attackers can extract information from the device, transfer malware to a device, or trigger a malicious activity to compromise the device. In this paper, we explore various threats and attacks abusing sensors of smart devices for malicious purposes. Specifically, we present a detailed survey about existing sensor-based threats and attacks to smart devices and countermeasures that have been developed to secure smart devices from sensor-based threats. Furthermore, we discuss security and privacy issues of smart devices in the context of sensor-based threats and attacks and conclude with future research directions.

Sensitive information tracking in commodity {IoT}
Broadly defined as the Internet of Things (IoT), the growth of commodity devices that integrate physical processes with digital connectivity has had profound effects on society--smart homes, personal monitoring devices, enhanced manufacturing and other IoT apps have changed the way we live, play, and work. Yet extant IoT platforms provide few means of evaluating the use (and potential avenues for misuse) of sensitive information. Thus, consumers and organizations have little information to assess the security and privacy risks these devices present. In this paper, we present SainT, a static taint analysis tool for IoT applications. SainT operates in three phases; (a) translation of platform-specific IoT source code into an intermediate representation (IR), (b) identifying sensitive sources and sinks, and (c) performing static analysis to identify sensitive data flows. We evaluate SainT on 230 SmartThings market apps and find 138 (60%) include sensitive data flows. In addition, we demonstrate SainT on IoTBench, a novel open-source test suite containing 19 apps with 27 unique data leaks. Through this effort, we introduce a rigorously grounded framework for evaluating the use of sensitive information in IoT apps---and therein provide developers, markets, and consumers a means of identifying potential threats to security and privacy.

GTID: A Technique for Physical Device and Device Type Fingerprinting
In this paper, we introduce GTID, a technique that can actively and passively fingerprint wireless devices and their types using wire-side observations in a local network. GTID exploits information that is leaked as a result of heterogeneity in devices, which is a function of different device hardware compositions and variations in devices' clock skew. We apply statistical techniques on network traffic to create unique, reproducible device and device type signatures, and use artificial neural networks (ANNs) for classification. We demonstrate the efficacy of our technique on both an isolated testbed and a live campus network (during peak hours) using a corpus of 37 devices representing a wide range of device classes (e.g., iPads, iPhones, Google Phones, etc.) and traffic types (e.g., Skype, SCP, ICMP, etc.). Our experiments provided more than 300 GB of traffic captures which we used for ANN training and performance evaluation. In order for any fingerprinting technique to be practical, it must be able to detect previously unseen devices (i.e., devices for which no stored signature is available) and must be able to withstand various attacks. GTID is a fingerprinting technique to detect previously unseen devices and to illustrate its resilience under various attacker models. We measure the performance of GTID by considering accuracy, recall, and processing time and also illustrate how it can be used to complement existing security mechanisms (e.g., authentication systems) and to detect counterfeit devices.

A survey on ransomware: Evolution, taxonomy, and defense solutions
In recent years, ransomware has been one of the most notorious malware targeting end-users, governments, and business organizations. It has become a very profitable business for cybercriminals with revenues of millions of dollars, and a very serious threat to organizations with financial losses of billions of dollars. Numerous studies were proposed to address the ransomware threat, including surveys that cover certain aspects of ransomware research. However, no study exists in the literature that gives the complete picture on ransomware and ransomware defense research with respect to the diversity of targeted platforms. Since ransomware is already prevalent in PCs/workstations/desktops/laptops, and is becoming more prevalent in mobile devices, and has already hit IoT/CPS recently, and will likely grow further in the IoT/CPS domain very soon, understanding ransomware and analyzing defense mechanisms with respect to target platforms is becoming more imperative. In order to fill this gap and motivate further research, in this paper, we present a comprehensive survey on ransomware and ransomware defense research with respect to PCs/workstations, mobile devices, and IoT/CPS platforms. Specifically, covering 137 studies over the period of 1990-2020, we give a detailed overview of ransomware evolution, comprehensively analyze the key building blocks of ransomware, present a taxonomy of notable ransomware families, and provide an extensive overview of ransomware defense research (i.e., analysis, detection, and recovery) with respect to platforms of PCs/workstations, mobile devices, and IoT/CPS. Moreover, we derive an extensive list of open issues for future ransomware research. We believe this survey will motivate further research by giving a complete picture on state-of-the-art ransomware research.

A survey on IoT platforms: Communication, security, and privacy perspectives
A survey on security and privacy issues in modern healthcare systems: Attacks and defenses
Recent advancements in computing systems and wireless communications have made healthcare systems more efficient than before. Modern healthcare devices can monitor and manage different health conditions of patients automatically without any manual intervention from medical professionals. Additionally, the use of implantable medical devices, body area networks, and Internet of Things technologies in healthcare systems improve the overall patient monitoring and treatment process. However, these systems are complex in software and hardware, and optimizing between security, privacy, and treatment is crucial for healthcare systems because any security or privacy violation can lead to severe effects on patients’ treatments and overall health conditions. Indeed, the healthcare domain is increasingly facing security challenges and threats due to numerous design flaws and the lack of proper security measures in healthcare devices and applications. In this article, we explore various security and privacy threats to healthcare systems and discuss the consequences of these threats. We present a detailed survey of different potential attacks and discuss their impacts. Furthermore, we review the existing security measures proposed for healthcare systems and discuss their limitations. Finally, we conclude the article with future research directions toward securing healthcare systems against common vulnerabilities.

A survey of honeypots and honeynets for internet of things, industrial internet of things, and cyber-physical systems
The Internet of Things (IoT), the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), and Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) have become essential for our daily lives in contexts such as our homes, buildings, cities, health, transportation, manufacturing, infrastructure, and agriculture. However, they have become popular targets of attacks, due to their inherent limitations which create vulnerabilities. Honeypots and honeynets can prove essential to understand and defend against attacks on IoT, IIoT, and CPS environments by attracting attackers and deceiving them into thinking that they have gained access to the real systems. Honeypots and honeynets can complement other security solutions (i.e., firewalls, Intrusion Detection Systems - IDS) to form a strong defense against malicious entities. This paper provides a comprehensive survey of the research that has been carried out on honeypots and honeynets for IoT, IIoT, and CPS. It provides a taxonomy and extensive analysis of the existing honeypots and honeynets, states key design factors for the state-of-the-art honeypot/honeynet research and outlines open issues for future honeypots and honeynets for IoT, IIoT, and CPS environments.

Advertising in the IoT era: Vision and challenges
The IoT extends the idea of interconnecting computers to a plethora of different devices, collectively referred to as smart devices. These are physical items, that is, "things", such as wearable devices, home appliances, and vehicles, enriched with computational and networking capabilities. Due to the huge set of devices involved, and therefore its pervasiveness, IoT is a great platform to leverage for building new applications and services or extending existing ones. In this regard, expanding online advertising into the IoT realm is an under-investigated yet promising research direction, especially considering that the traditional Internet advertising market is already worth hundreds of billions of dollars. In this article, we first propose the architecture of an IoT advertising platform inspired by the well known business ecosystem, which the traditional Internet advertising is based on. Additionally, we discuss the key challenges to implement such a platform, with a special focus on issues related to architecture, advertisement content delivery, security, and privacy of the users.

{6thSense}: A context-aware sensor-based attack detector for smart devices
Sensors (e.g., light, gyroscope, accelerotmeter) and sensing enabled applications on a smart device make the applications more user-friendly and efficient. However, the current permission-based sensor management systems of smart devices only focus on certain sensors and any App can get access to other sensors by just accessing the generic sensor API. In this way, attackers can exploit these sensors in numerous ways: they can extract or leak users' sensitive information, transfer malware, or record or steal sensitive information from other nearby devices. In this paper, we propose 6thSense, a context-aware intrusion detection system which enhances the security of smart devices by observing changes in sensor data for different tasks of users and creating a contextual model to distinguish benign and malicious behavior of sensors. 6thSense utilizes three different Machine Learning-based detection mechanisms (i.e., Markov Chain, Naive Bayes, and LMT) to detect malicious behavior associated with sensors. We implemented 6thSense on a sensor-rich Android smart device (i.e., smartphone) and collected data from typical daily activities of 50 real users. Furthermore, we evaluated the performance of 6thSense against three sensor-based threats: (1) a malicious App that can be triggered via a sensor (e.g., light), (2) a malicious App that can leak information via a sensor, and (3) a malicious App that can steal data using sensors. Our extensive evaluations show that the 6thSense framework is an effective and practical approach to defeat growing sensor-based threats with an accuracy above 96% without compromising the normal functionality of the device. Moreover, our framework costs minimal overhead.

Privacy-preserving protocols for secure and reliable data aggregation in IoT-enabled smart metering systems
P3D: A Parallel 3D Coordinate Visualization for Advanced Network Scans
As network attacks increase in complexity, network administrators will continue to struggle with analyzing security data immediately and efficiently. To alleviate these challenges, researchers are looking into various visualization techniques (e.g., two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D)) to detect, identify, and analyze malicious attacks. This paper discusses the benefits of using a stereoscopic 3D parallel visualization techniques for network scanning, in particular, when addressing occlusion-based visualization attacks intended to confuse network administrators. To our knowledge, no 2D or 3D tool exists that analyzes these attacks. Hence, we propose a novel 3D Parallel coordinate visualization tool for advanced network scans and attacks called P3D. P3D uses flow data, filtering techniques, and state-of-the art 3D technologies to help network administrators detect distributed and coordinated network scans. Compared to other 2D and 3D network security visualization tools, P3D prevents occlusion-based visualization attacks (e.g., Windshield Wiper and Port Source Confusion attacks). We validate our tool with use-cases from emulated distributed scanning attacks. Our evaluation shows P3D allows users to extract new information about scans and minimize information overload by adding an extra dimension and awareness region in the visualization.

IoT-enabled smart lighting systems for smart cities
Over the past few decades, the rate of urbanization has increased enormously. More enhanced services and applications are needed in urban areas to provide a better lifestyle. Smart city, which is a concept of interconnecting modern digital technologies in the context of a city, is a potential solution to enhance the quality and performance of urban services. With the introduction of Internet-of-Things (IoT) in the smart city, new opportunities have emerged to develop new services and integrate different application domains with each other using Information and Communication Technologies. However, to ensure seamless services in an IoT-enabled smart city environment, all the applications have to be maintained with limited energy resources. One of the core sectors that can be improved significantly by implementing IoT is the lighting system of a city since it consumes more energy than other parts of a city. In a smart city, the lighting system is integrated with advanced sensors and communication channels to obtain a Smart Lighting System (SLS). The goal of an SLS is to obtain an autonomous and more efficient lighting management system. In this paper, we provide an overview of the SLS and review different IoT-enabled communication protocols, which can be used to realize the SLS in the context of a smart city. Moreover, we analyzed different usage scenarios for IoT-enabled indoor and outdoor SLS and provide an analysis of the power consumption. Our results reveal that IoT-enabled smart lighting systems can reduce power consumption up to 33.33% in both indoor and outdoor settings. Finally, we discussed the future research directions in SLS in the smart city.

Healthguard: A machine learning-based security framework for smart healthcare systems
The integration of Internet-of-Things and pervasive computing in medical devices have made the modern healthcare system “smart.” Today, the function of the healthcare system is not limited to treat the patients only. With the help of implantable medical devices and wearables, Smart Healthcare System (SHS) can continuously monitor different vital signs of a patient and automatically detect and prevent critical medical conditions. However, these increasing functionalities of SHS raise several security concerns and attackers can exploit the SHS in numerous ways: they can impede normal function of the SHS, inject false data to change vital signs, and tamper a medical device to change the outcome of a medical emergency. In this paper, we propose HealthGuard, a novel machine learning-based security framework to detect malicious activities in a SHS. HealthGuard observes the vital signs of different connected devices of a SHS and correlates the vitals to understand the changes in body functions of the patient to distinguish benign and malicious activities. HealthGuard utilizes four different machine learning-based detection techniques (Artificial Neural Network, Decision Tree, Random Forest, k-Nearest Neighbor) to detect malicious activities in a SHS. We trained HealthGuard with data collected for eight different smart medical devices for twelve benign events including seven normal user activities and five disease-affected events. Furthermore, we evaluated the performance of HealthGuard against three different malicious threats. Our extensive evaluation shows that HealthGuard is an effective security framework for SHS with an accuracy of 91 % and an $F_{1}$ score of 90 %.

A survey on security and privacy issues of UAVs
DONE