Sleep quality prediction from wearable data using deep learning
Background The importance of sleep is paramount to health. Insufficient sleep can reduce physical, emotional, and mental well-being and can lead to a multitude of health complications among people with chronic conditions. Physical activity and sleep are highly interrelated health behaviors. Our physical activity during the day (ie, awake time) influences our quality of sleep, and vice versa. The current popularity of wearables for tracking physical activity and sleep, including actigraphy devices, can foster the development of new advanced data analytics. This can help to develop new electronic health (eHealth) applications and provide more insights into sleep science. Objective The objective of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of predicting sleep quality (ie, poor or adequate sleep efficiency) given the physical activity wearable data during awake time. In this study, we focused on predicting good or poor sleep efficiency as an indicator of sleep quality. Methods Actigraphy sensors are wearable medical devices used to study sleep and physical activity patterns. The dataset used in our experiments contained the complete actigraphy data from a subset of 92 adolescents over 1 full week. Physical activity data during awake time was used to create predictive models for sleep quality, in particular, poor or good sleep efficiency. The physical activity data from sleep time was used for the evaluation. We compared the predictive performance of traditional logistic regression with more advanced deep learning methods: multilayer perceptron (MLP), convolutional neural network (CNN), simple Elman-type recurrent neural network (RNN), long short-term memory (LSTM-RNN), and a time-batched version of LSTM-RNN (TB-LSTM). Results Deep learning models were able to predict the quality of sleep (ie, poor or good sleep efficiency) based on wearable data from awake periods. More specifically, the deep learning methods performed better than traditional linear regression. CNN had the highest specificity and sensitivity, and an overall area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) of 0.9449, which was 46% better as compared with traditional linear regression (0.6463). Conclusions Deep learning methods can predict the quality of sleep based on actigraphy data from awake periods. These predictive models can be an important tool for sleep research and to improve eHealth solutions for sleep.

Benchmark on a large cohort for sleep-wake classification with machine learning techniques
Impact of physical activity on sleep: A deep learning based exploration
The science of sweet dreams: predicting sleep efficiency from wearable device data
Lack of sleep can erode mental and physical well-being, often exacerbating health problems such as obesity. Wearable devices that capture and analyze sleep quality through predictive methodologies can help patients and medical practitioners make behavioral health decisions that can lead to better sleep and improved health. In the web extra at https://youtu.be/_zL-t4gk210, guest editor Katarzyna Wac interviews lead author Aarti Sathyanarayana, a PhD student in the University of Minnesota's Department of Computer Science.

Robust automated human activity recognition and its application to sleep research
Human Activity Recognition (HAR) is a powerful tool for understanding human behaviour. Pervasive sensors, such as wearable devices, have an increasing market penetration and generate a tremendous amount of data. The myriad of available clinical and consumer-grade wearables generate a continuous time series of a person's daily physical exertion and rest. Applying HAR to the activity time series can provide new insights by enriching the feature set in health studies, and enhancing the personalisation and effectiveness of health, wellness, and fitness applications. The analyses of complex health behaviours such as sleep, traditionally require a time-consuming manual interpretation by experts. This manual work is necessary due to the erratic periodicity and persistent noisiness of human behaviour. In this paper, we present a robust automated human activity recognition algorithm, which we call RAHAR. We test our algorithm in the application area of sleep research by providing a novel framework for evaluating sleep quality and examining the correlation between the aforementioned and an individual's physical activity. Our results improve the state-of-the-art procedure in sleep research by 15% for area under ROC and by 30% for F1 score on average. However, application of RAHAR is not limited to sleep analysis and can be used for understanding other health problems such as obesity, diabetes, and cardiac diseases.

Nonlinear Analysis of Visually Normal EEGs to Differentiate Benign Childhood Epilepsy with Centrotemporal Spikes
Dynamic activity recommendation system
Mobile health (mHealth) information service makes healthcare management easier for users, who want to increase physical activity and improve health. However, the differences in activity preference among the individual, adherence problems, and uncertainty of future health outcomes may reduce the effect of the mHealth information service. The current health service system usually provides recommendations based on fixed exercise plans that do not satisfy the user’s specific needs. This paper seeks an efficient way to make physical activity recommendation decisions on physical activity promotion in personalised mHealth information service by establishing data-driven model. In this study, we propose a real-time interaction model to select the optimal exercise plan for the individual considering the time-varying characteristics in maximising the long-term health utility of the user. We construct a framework for mHealth information service system comprising a personalised AI module, which is based on the scientific knowledge about physical activity to evaluate the individual's exercise performance, which may increase the awareness of the mHealth artificial intelligence system. The proposed deep reinforcement learning (DRL) methodology combining two classes of approaches to improve the learning capability for the mHealth information service system. A deep learning method is introduced to construct the hybrid neural network combing long-short term memory (LSTM) network and deep neural network (DNN) techniques to infer the individual exercise behavior from the time series data. A reinforcement learning method is applied based on the asynchronous advantage actor-critic algorithm to find the optimal policy through exploration and exploitation. We tested our DRL methodology using real-world data from a runner program, and our policy was validated by comparison to other fixed exercise plans. The results show that the proposed physical activity recommendation system for the personalised mHealth information service, represented as a personalized AI module, can adapt to the users' changing behaviour, boost the users' exercise performance, and promote a pareto optimal healthy lifestyle.

Measuring the effects of sleep on epileptogenicity with multifrequency entropy
Measuring real-time medication effects from electroencephalography
Supplemental Digital Content is Available in the Text. Purpose: Evaluating the effects of antiseizure medication (ASM) on patients with epilepsy remains a slow and challenging process. Quantifiable noninvasive markers that are measurable in real-time and provide objective and useful information could guide clinical decision-making. We examined whether the effect of ASM on patients with epilepsy can be quantitatively measured in real-time from EEGs. Methods: This retrospective analysis was conducted on 67 patients in the long-term monitoring unit at Boston Children's Hospital. Two 30-second EEG segments were selected from each patient premedication and postmedication weaning for analysis. Nonlinear measures including entropy and recurrence quantitative analysis values were computed for each segment and compared before and after medication weaning. Results: Our study found that ASM effects on the brain were measurable by nonlinear recurrence quantitative analysis on EEGs. Highly significant differences (P < 1e-11) were found in several nonlinear measures within the seizure zone in response to antiseizure medication. Moreover, the size of the medication effect correlated with a patient's seizure frequency, seizure localization, number of medications, and reported seizure frequency reduction on medication. Conclusions: Our findings show the promise of digital biomarkers to measure medication effects and epileptogenicity.

Clinical decision making: A framework for predicting rx response
Over seventy percent of Americans take at least one form of prescription medication, with twenty percent taking more than five. The numbers emphasize how important it is for clinicians to understand the effects of the medication and whether these medications are effective. In this paper we propose a data driven framework to predict the effectiveness of medication on a patient, specifically in the case of diabetes. Our dataset contains claims data from 1.5 million patients. A heuristic was established to evaluate the "effectiveness" of Metformin using a set of three criteria. Decision trees and random forests were used to create prediction models on the training data and select features. The model was able to correctly predict whether a patient responded well to the medication with approximately 80% accuracy and an F1-measure of approximately 90%.

Investigating social interaction patterns with depression severity across different personality traits using digital phenotyping
Depression is a prevalent mental health concern among students due to the relentless academic demands and societal pressures. This study tests the hypothesis that students with increased depression exhibit specific social interaction patterns like connecting with others both online and in-person, associated with distinct personality traits. Leveraging smartphone passive sensing data from the StudentLife dataset, we categorized students into three clusters based on their big five personality survey responses. Our key finding reveals that students with high neuroticism and increased depression exhibit greater variability in the number of social contacts. This may be because these students possess more emotional instability, self-esteem, and negative self-perception. This finding highlights the significance of focusing on interpersonal aspects of depression to identify students who may be at intense risk for psychopathology. Understanding the dynamic interplay between personality traits, social interactions, and depression can aid in developing targeted interventions to promote mental well-being among students.

Topological Data Analysis of Electroencephalogram Signals for Pediatric Obstructive Sleep Apnea
Topological data analysis (TDA) is an emerging technique for biological signal processing. TDA leverages the invariant topological features of signals in a metric space for robust analysis of signals even in the presence of noise. In this paper, we leverage TDA on brain connectivity networks derived from electroencephalogram (EEG) signals to identify statistical differences between pediatric patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and pediatric patients without OSA. We leverage a large corpus of data, and show that TDA enables us to see a statistical difference between the brain dynamics of the two groups.Clinical relevance— This establishes the potential of topological data analysis as a tool to identify obstructive sleep apnea without requiring a full polysomnogram study, and provides an initial investigation towards easier and more scalable obstructive sleep apnea diagnosis.

Machine learning assisted satellite based positioning
Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) and New Radio (NR) signals based positioning are both specified for User Equipment (UE) positioning in a 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) network. They may also be fused to determine UE position by hybrid methods. In an urban scenario, the UE often suffers from non-line of sight (NLoS) propagation conditions from the satellite or the base station (BS). Identifying the links that have a line of sight (LoS) condition between the transmitter and the receiver is of paramount importance to enhance the accuracy of position estimates from GNSS, NR signals, or hybrids thereof. To address the issues with NLoS links, we propose a novel positioning solution fusing measurements made using GNSS and fifth-generation (5G) signals in the frequency range 1 (FR1) in an urban environment. We apply a supervised machine learning (ML) approach to classify LoS and NLoS for both GNSS and 5G signals based on the feature set. An extended Kalman filter (EKF) fuses observable measurements with LoS from both GNSS and 5G to estimate the UE position. We obtain positioning errors below 30 cm indoors, and below 2 m for 90% of all positioning fixes. Moreover, we observe that using our proposed fusion approach outperforms positioning using either NR signals or GNSS signals alone. We demonstrate that it is advantageous to deploy a transmission and reception point (TRP) at the areas where GNSS-based positioning shows degradations, as the results show that a single TRP for hybrid positioning already halves the positioning error compared to using only the LoS GNSS signals.

Computational sleep science: Machine learning for the detection, diagnosis, and treatment of sleep problems from wearable device data
University of Minnesota Ph.D. dissertation.December 2017. Major: Computer Science. Advisor: Jaideep Srivastava. 1 computer file (PDF); xiii, 122 pages.

Machine learning assisted satellite based positioning
Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) and New Radio (NR) signals based positioning are both specified for User Equipment (UE) positioning in a 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) network. They may also be fused to determine UE position by hybrid methods. In an urban scenario, the UE often suffers from non-line of sight (NLoS) propagation conditions from the satellite or the base station (BS). Identifying the links that have a line of sight (LoS) condition between the transmitter and the receiver is of paramount importance to enhance the accuracy of position estimates from GNSS, NR signals, or hybrids thereof. To address the issues with NLoS links, we propose a novel positioning solution fusing measurements made using GNSS and fifth-generation (5G) signals in the frequency range 1 (FR1) in an urban environment. We apply a supervised machine learning (ML) approach to classify LoS and NLoS for both GNSS and 5G signals based on the feature set. An extended Kalman filter (EKF) fuses observable measurements with LoS from both GNSS and 5G to estimate the UE position. We obtain positioning errors below 30 cm indoors, and below 2 m for 90% of all positioning fixes. Moreover, we observe that using our proposed fusion approach outperforms positioning using either NR signals or GNSS signals alone. We demonstrate that it is advantageous to deploy a transmission and reception point (TRP) at the areas where GNSS-based positioning shows degradations, as the results show that a single TRP for hybrid positioning already halves the positioning error compared to using only the LoS GNSS signals.

Detection of Sleep Oxygen Desaturations from Electroencephalogram Signals
In this work, we leverage machine learning techniques to identify potential biomarkers of oxygen desaturation during sleep exclusively from electroencephalogram (EEG) signals in pediatric patients with sleep apnea. Development of a machine learning technique which can successfully identify EEG signals from patients with sleep apnea as well as identify latent EEG signals which come from subjects who experience oxygen desaturations but do not themselves occur during oxygen desaturation events would provide a strong step towards developing a brain-based biomarker for sleep apnea in order to aid with easier diagnosis of this disease. We leverage a large corpus of data, and show that machine learning enables us to classify EEG signals as occurring during oxygen desaturations or not occurring during oxygen desaturations with an average 66.8% balanced accuracy. We furthermore investigate the ability of machine learning models to identify subjects who experience oxygen desaturations from EEG data that does not occur during oxygen desaturations. We conclude that there is a potential biomarker for oxygen desaturation in EEG data.

0316 Real-time Detection of Oxygen Desaturation Using Electroencephalogram Signals

 
 
 Existing sleep apnea identification methods require polysomnograms, requiring patients schedule the exam and to sleep with many sensors attached to their body. Oxygen desaturation occurs during sleep in patients with sleep apnea, leading to poor rest and other significant complications. Existing work shows the potential of EEG signals as indicators of sleep apnea, identifying a correlation between EEG signals and sleep apnea diagnosis. However, further work is required to understand how blood oxygenation correlates with features in the brain. Recent advancements in signal processing allow EEG signal analysis to identify oxygen desaturation events in real time.
 
 
 
 We leverage EEG signals from polysomnogram studies included in the Nationwide Children’s Hospital Sleep DataBank (NCHSDB) dataset for this study. We first break the data into 30-second epochs, then label epochs where the oxygen desaturation event (< 90% SpO2) encompasses all 30 seconds of the epoch as epochs containing desaturations. We furthermore label all epochs where no oxygen desaturation occurs as epochs without desaturations. We perform short-term Fourier transforms on each epoch of EEG data. We randomly select a training set of 20 subjects and a testing set of 20 subjects, different for each sleep state (NREM1, NREM2, NREM3, REM). We then train a ResNet based deep learning network on these EEG signals to predict which epochs contain an oxygen desaturation and which epochs do not contain an oxygen desaturation.
 
 
 
 Our model obtains a test balanced accuracy of 77.1% for NREM1 sleep, 58.9% for NREM2 sleep, 80.1% for NREM3 sleep, and 71.0% for REM sleep.
 
 
 
 Our results indicate that machine learning models can identify a correlation between oxygen desaturation from EEG signals alone, indicating a potential biomarker for real-time identification of oxygen desaturation from neural signals. This provides a step towards easier identification of sleep apnea, requiring fewer sensors than a traditional polysomnogram.
 
 
 
 NCH Sleep DataBank was supported by the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering of the National Institutes of Health under Award Number R01EB025018. The National Sleep Research Resource was supported by the U.S. National Institutes of Health, National Heart Lung and Blood Institute (R24 HL114473, 75N92019R002).


Modeling Messaging Metadata to Identify Digital Disagreements among Non-incarcerated Adolescents in the Juvenile Justice System
The psychological wellbeing of adolescents, including their relationships with their parents and friends, is highly affected by romantic relationship conflict. At-risk youth - who are involved with the juvenile justice system and are especially vulnerable to aggression, defiance, and behavioral problems - experience relationship conflict at rates that exceed those of youth in the community. The pervasive usage of mobile technology by adolescents provides unprecedented data on their social interactions, communication patterns, and romantic relationship conflicts; as well as an opportunity to develop timely interventions to improve their wellbeing. This study investigates the potential of utilizing text messaging metadata from conversations with parental figures, friends, and other social connections for scalable early identification of moments of disagreement in romantic relationships in non-incarcerated, justice-involved youth. We utilize changepoint detection on text message metadata across various relationships, including the number of messages, length of messages, and response time, to identify changes in communication patterns across hours, days, and weeks, to estimate the day of a romantic disagreement. When comparing our predicted disagreement times to the current standard of intervention delivery, at random, we found statistically significant improvements in predicting disagreements with romantic partners. Our findings demonstrate that messaging metadata can effectively identify moments of disagreement in adolescents, and can be used for the delivery of just-in-time interventions for high-risk adolescents.

Exploring Sleep Disturbance in Central Nervous System Disorders
Central nervous system disease is globally common with dysfunction of the brain and spinal cord, which significantly affects the quality of life, such as sleep disturbances. Pineal gland is pivotal in regulating sleep cycles and circadian rhythms. And melatonin, secreted by pineal gland, promotes neurodevelopment and maintains neurohomeostasis, which is also pivotal in the modulation of central nervous system disorders. In recent years, studies have found that patients with central nervous system damage often have degeneration of the pineal gland, characterized by a decrease in pineal gland volume, reduced melatonin secretion, and even parenchymal calcification. An increasing number of Alzheimer's disease patients have been observed to exhibit pineal gland calcification. Research suggests that sleep disturbances accompanying central nervous system disorders can be attributed to the degeneration of pineal gland function, indicating a potential contribution of gland calcification to central nervous system diseases. Here, we review the recent research on pineal gland calculi and discuss the potential relationship between pineal gland calcification and various central nervous system diseases, contributing to a deeper understanding of the intricate mechanisms underlying neurological disorders.

Exploring Sleep Disturbance in Central Nervous System Disorders: Proceedings of a Workshop
DONE