Securing commercial WiFi-based UAVs from common security attacks
We posit that commercial Wi-Fi-based unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) are vulnerable to common and basic security attacks, capable by beginner to intermediate hackers. We do this by demonstrating that the standard ARDiscovery Connection process and the Wi-Fi access point used in the Parrot Bebop UAV are exploitable such that the UAV's ability to fly can be disrupted mid-flight by a remote attacker. We believe that these vulnerabilities are systemic in Wi-Fi-based Parrot UAVs. Our approach observed the normal operation (i.e., ARDiscovery Connection process over Wi-Fi) of the Parrot Bebop UAV. We then used a fuzzing technique to discover that the Parrot Bebop UAV is vulnerable to basic denial of service (DoS) and buffer-overflow attacks during its ARDiscovery Connection process. The exploitation of these vulnerabilities could result in catastrophic and immediate disabling of the UAV's rotors midflight. Also, we discovered that the Parrot Bebop UAV is vulnerable to a basic ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) Cache Poisoning attack, which can disconnect the primary mobile device user and in most cases cause the UAV to land or return home. Based on the literature and our own penetration testing, we assert that Wi-Fi-based commercial UAVs require a comprehensive security framework that utilizes a defense-in-depth approach. This approach would likely mitigate security risks associated with the three zero-day vulnerabilities described in this paper as well as other vulnerabilities reported in the literature. This framework will be effective for Parrot Wi-Fi-based commercial UAVs and likely others with similar platforms.

A distributed intrusion detection system for resource-constrained devices in ad-hoc networks
Parent education is changing: a review of smartphone apps
Purpose: The purpose was to critique existing parenting apps using established criteria and health literacy guidelines. Study Design: Descriptive methodology was used. Methods: The Apple App Store was searched using the terms parenting, child health, and infant health. To be included, the apps had to have relevant content (parenting, child health, or infant health), be in English, and contain parent education. After eliminating apps that failed to meet inclusion criteria from the original 203 apps, 46 apps were reviewed. The Patient Education Materials Assessment Tool was used to evaluate the health literacy subscales called Understandability and Actionability. Content analysis included Authority, Objectivity, Accuracy, Timeliness, and Usability. Results: The majority of the apps (70%) were in English only. The price ranged from free to $4.99. The purpose, target audience, and topics varied. Although all included apps were for parents, some were for more targeted groups of parents. The source of the information was not presented in 26% of the apps. Most apps took the user to a Web site or an article to read. Functionality of the apps was limited, with none of them providing a customized experience. Clinical Implications: Much development and research is needed before mobile health (mHealth) solutions can be recommended by nurses caring for new parents. It is critical that consumers and interdisciplinary professionals be involved in the early design phase of the product to ensure that the end product is acceptable and usable and that it will lead to healthy behaviors.

Bitcoin message: Data insertion on a proof-of-work cryptocurrency system
The Bit coin currency is steadily growing in popularity as an alternative to physical currencies. This paper presents an approach for utilizing the Bit coin system for creating permanent messages that are located on computers worldwide. By manipulating the amount field of Bit coin transactions, messages can be embedded into the Bit coin block chain. This approach was implemented by extending the Bit coin-Qt v0.7.2 application and the source code is freely available.

Wavelet transform analytics for RF-based UAV detection and identification system using machine learning
Machine learning framework for RF-based drone detection and identification system
The emergence of drones has added a new dimension to privacy and security issues. There are little or no strict regulations on the people that can purchase or own a drone. For this reason, people can take advantage of these aircraft to intrude into restricted or private areas. A drone detection and identification (DDI) system is one of the ways of detecting and identifying the presence of a drone in an area. DDI systems can employ different sensing techniques such as radio frequency (RF) signals, video, sounds, and thermal imaging for detecting an intruding drone. In this work, we propose a machine learning RF-based DDI system that uses low band RF signals from drone-to-flight controller communication. We develop three machine learning models using the XGBoost algorithm to detect and identify the presence of a drone, the type of the drone, and the operational mode of drones. For these three XGBoost models, we evaluated the models using 10-fold cross validation and we achieve average accuracy of 99.96%, 90.73%, and 70.09% respectively.

Link quality estimation in ad hoc and mesh networks: A survey and future directions
Resilient and efficient MANET aerial communications for search and rescue applications
The ability of first-responders to react to the aftermath of natural disasters depends heavily on receiving accurate, real-time data about the structures that may have been affected. Because transportation infrastructure may be unusable, aerial assessments are the gold standard by which such assessments are performed. The advent of mobile ad-hoc networks (MANETs) and autonomous aircraft represents a unique opportunity to allow for rapid response, while minimizing the cost of deployment and increasing reliability and operator safety. This paper describes the key challenges to implement fault-tolerant and efficient deployments of collaborative autonomous aircraft to increase operational reliability and performance when performing aerial sensing and assessment. Some challenges are introduced by mobility, such as wireless communication, group navigation, and data collection. Security also represents a challenge during the operation of the MANET. We consider the effects of limited resources (e.g., real-time processing power, battery packs) available on the aircraft. By understanding both the application context and the resource availability, networked aircraft can reorganize to ensure resiliency for the mission if a resource failure occurs within the network.

Performance improvement of transmission in Unmanned Aerial Systems using multipath TCP
One Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) is not efficient for carrying out search-and-rescue, reconnaissance, and surveillance because it has to make multiple back-and-forth trips across an area. The solution is to use a swarm of cooperating UAVs to form an Unmanned Aerial System (UAS). Using UASs poses the well-known problems exhibited by Mobile Ad Hoc Networks (MANETS) of frequent disconnections and high rates of failed transmissions as vehicles move in and out of network coverage areas. Seamless handover can be achieved by using multiple and diverse transmission paths per UAV. The first contribution of this paper is a novel mathematical relationship model that assigns fitness scores for purposes of matching a UAV interface type to transmission type. Transmission type examples are telemetry, video, and still images. The second contribution is the first ever wireless Multipath Transmission Control Protocol (MPTCP) module in Network Simulator 2 (NS2). The third contribution is a simulation implementation of our mathematical model in the new MPTCP over wireless protocol. In simulation, this approach improves transmission throughput by 20% over the recommended standard MPTCP. Our implementation design for a real UAS that uses multi-interface networks is reported.

Aerial MANETs: Developing a Resilient and Efficient Platform for Search and Rescue Applications.
Abstract — The ability of first-responders to react to the aftermath of natural disasters depends heavily on receiving accurate, real-time data about the structures that may have been affected. Because transportation infrastructure may be unusable, aerial assessments are the gold standard by which such assessments are performed. The advent of mobile ad-hoc networks (MANETs) and autonomous aircraft represents a unique opportunity to allow for rapid response, while minimizing the cost of deployment and increasing reliability and operator safety. This paper describes the key challenges to implement fault-tolerant and efficient deployments of collaborative autonomous aircraft to increase operational reliability and performance when performing aerial sensing and assessment. Some challenges are affected by mobility, such as wireless communication, group navigation, and data collection. Security also represents a challenge during the operation of the MANET. We consider the effects of limited resources (e.g., real-time processing power, battery packs) available on the aircraft. By understanding both the application context and the resource availability, networked aircraft can reorganize to ensure resiliency for the mission if a resource failure occurs within the network.

Hierarchical learning framework for UAV detection and identification
The ubiquity of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones is posing both security and safety risks to the public as UAVs are now used for cybercrimes. To mitigate these risks, it is important to have a system that can detect or identify the presence of an intruding UAV in a restricted environment. In this work, we propose a radio frequency (RF) based UAV detection and identification system by exploiting signals emanating from both the UAV and its flight controller, respectively. While several RF devices (i.e., Bluetooth and WiFi) operate in the same frequency band as UAVs, the proposed framework utilizes a semi-supervised learning approach for the detection of UAV or UAV’s control signals in the presence of other wireless signals such as Bluetooth and WiFi. The semi-supervised learning approach uses stacked denoising autoencoder and local outlier factor algorithms. After the detection of UAV or UAV’s control signals, the signal is decomposed by using Hilbert-Huang transform and wavelet packet transform to extract features from the time-frequency-energy domain of the signal. The extracted feature sets are used to train a three-level hierarchical classifier for identifying the type of signals (i.e., UAV or UAV control signal), UAV models, and flight mode of UAV.

Embedded intelligent intrusion detection: A behavior-based approach
This paper describes the development of an intelligent intrusion detection system for use within an embedded device network consisting of interconnected agents. Integral behavior types are categorized by focusing primarily on inter-device requests and actions rather than at a packet or link level. Machine learning techniques use these observed behavioral actions to track devices which deviate from normal protocol. Deviant behavior can be analyzed and flagged, enabling interconnected agents to identify an intruder based upon the historical distribution of behavioral data that is accumulated about the possible deviant agent. Simulation results from the prototype system correlate detection accuracy with a tunable input tolerance factor.

An active and incremental learning framework for the online prediction of link quality in robot networks
Do new mothers understand the risk factors for maternal mortality?
Purpose: The purpose of this study was to describe new mothers' knowledge related to maternal mortality. Study Design and Methods: Using a cross-sectional design, new mothers were recruited from a postpartum unit of an academic health sciences center where the population was predominately low-income women. Before hospital discharge, they answered questions on their knowledge of potential postpartum complications that could lead to maternal mortality. Questions were based on recommendations from an expert nursing panel. Descriptive statistics were used for data analysis. Results: One hundred twenty new mothers participated. Results indicated that most new mothers knew that they should watch for heavy bleeding, a severe headache, and swelling after hospital discharge. However, fewer participants knew that a new mother could experience feelings that she could harm herself or her baby, have blood clots larger than a baby's hand, a temperature of 100.4 °F or higher, and odor with vaginal discharge. Courses of action new mothers would take if experiencing any of the warning signs included 18% of mothers would take no action, 76.7% would tell their boyfriend/husband/partner, 72.5% would inform their mother. Only 60% who would call the labor and delivery unit. Only 38% of the sample knew that pregnancy-related complications can occur for up to 1 year after birth, and 13% of mothers reported not knowing that complications can occur for up to 6 weeks postpartum. Clinical Implications: Our findings provide a foundation to enhance postpartum education for new mothers and their families and to potentially decrease rates of maternal mortality in the United States.

A Fuzzy-Based Machine Learning Model for Robot Prediction of Link Quality
With foresight into the state of the wireless channel, a robot can make various optimization decisions with regards to routing packets, planning mobility paths, or switching between diverse radios. However, the process of predicting link quality (LQ) is nontrivial due to the streaming and dynamic nature of radio wave propagation, which is complicated by robot mobility. Due to robot movement, the wireless propagation environment can change considerably in terms of distance, obstacles, noise, and interference. Therefore, LQ must be learned and regularly updated while the robot is online. However, the existing fuzzy-based models for assessing LQ are non-adaptable due to the absence of any learning mechanism. To address this issue, we introduce a fuzzy-based prediction model designed for the efficient online and incremental learning of LQ. The unique approach uses fuzzy logic to infer LQ based on the collective output from a series of offset classifiers and their posterior probabilities. In essence, the proposed model leverages machine learning for extracting the underlying functional relationship between the input and output variables, but deeper inferences are made from the output of the learning algorithms using fuzzy logic. Wireless link data from a real-world robot network was used to compare the model with the traditional linear regression approach. The results show statistically significant improvements in three out of the six real-world indoor and outdoor environments where the robot operated. Additionally, the novel approach offers a number of other benefits, including the flexibility to use fuzzy logic for model tuning, as well as the ability to make implementation efficiencies in terms of parallelization and the conservation of labeling resources.

Semi-supervised learning framework for UAV detection
The use of supervised learning with various sensing techniques such as audio, visual imaging, thermal sensing, RADAR, and radio frequency (RF) have been widely applied in the detection of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) in an environment. However, little or no attention has been given to the application of unsupervised or semi-supervised algorithms for UAV detection. In this paper, we propose a semi-supervised technique and architecture for detecting UAVs in an environment by exploiting the RF signals (i.e., fingerprints) between a UAV and its flight-controller communication under wireless inference such as Bluetooth and WiFi. By decomposing the RF signals using a two-level wavelet packet transform, we estimated the second moment statistic (i.e., variance) of the coefficients in each packet as a feature set. We developed a local outlier factor model as the UAV detection algorithm using the coefficient variances of the wavelet packets from WiFi and Bluetooth signals. When detecting the presence of RF-based UAV, we achieved an accuracy of 96.7% and 86% at a signal-to-noise ratio of 30 dB and 18 dB, respectively. The application of this approach is not limited to UAV detection as it can be extended to the detection of rogue RF devices in an environment.

A crossword puzzle generator using genetic algorithms with Wisdom of Artificial Crowds
NP-hard problems, such as generating crossword puzzles, are candidates for solution by genetic algorithms (GAs). A combination of both a genetic algorithms and a Wisdom of Artificial Crowds (WoAC) aggregation method was developed for the purpose of creating crossword puzzles given a particular outline. The program was written using a GPL Hunspell wrapper NHunspell for word verification and suggestion. In American-style crossword puzzles, we saw performance improvements of around 20% in reaching a local optima, with a 6% improvement in the number of successful words found by a GA + WoAC algorithm over the baseline genetic algorithm.

Fault-tolerant distributed reconnaissance
This paper describes a method to efficiently canvass an area of interest using distributed sensing methods, assisted by fault-tolerant resource management. By implementing multiple aircraft in an assessment configuration, aerial monitoring and diverse sensing can be accomplished through the use of ad-hoc networking principles; aircraft act as nodes, each being a distributed agent in the network. Combined with a method called the Distributed Apt Resource Transference System (DARTS) for reallocating redundant or alternately-allocatable resources, such implementations can enjoy longer operational duration, increased coverage, and a higher probability of executing the desired reconnaissance. DARTS employs a hybridization of gossip and flooding-based resource discovery methods to find suitable replacement resources in the case of a node failure. Failures may arise due to natural (environmental) interference or malicious attacks designed to disrupt the mission. Testing of the fault-tolerant resource management techniques demonstrated resiliency of the system, resulting in minimal bandwidth requirements to reallocate (up to 6-fold reduction in traffic) and a faster speed of resource reallocation (up to 79% improvement), even in the face of an inconsistent state of operation. By implementing intrusion detection system (IDS) technologies to spawn the reallocation process (a procedure called triggering), DARTS provides a flexible, lightweight, and scalable method to efficiently allow reconnaissance and other distributed sensing applications to occur on a mobile, airborne platform.

Fault tolerance in MANETs using a task-to-resource reallocation framework
We propose an efficient method to re-allocate resources available on Mobile Ad-hoc Networks in the event of a network attack or a node failure. By utilizing a structure we call a resource fitness cache, we identify a way to reduce the number of messages required to find a suitable replacement resource among remaining nodes on the network, assuming that redundancy is present in among the resources. Our approach employs an arbitrator node that triggers the allocation. The arbitrator is chosen based on which node first needs access to a resource that has become unavailable. Initial results show a 40-74% improvement in densely-connected networks, versus the baseline un-cached case. Our results were generated using the Omnet++ 4.0 discrete event network simulator.

Direction of arrival estimation for robots using radio signal strength and mobility
A robot is sometimes unable to obtain its precise location, or the location of its neighbors, due to the limitations of the global positioning system (GPS) or due to positioning information not being exchanged between neighbors. In either scenario, received radio signals can be used by a robot to infer positioning information, but the process is challenging because of the dynamics of radio wave propagation. To mitigate these effects and improve accuracy, many of the existing methods for inferring the direction of arrival (DoA) of radio signals impose unrealistic resource demands on robots. For instance, the schemes either require rotating directional antenna systems to be mounted on robots, or they depend upon other collaborative systems, with known locations, to assist in localization. However, in reality, robots usually do not have sufficient resources, in terms of space and energy, to support the mounting of directional antennas, nor are they guaranteed to have the luxury of collaborative team members. As a more practical alternative, this paper presents a coarse-grained method of finding the relative direction of a transmitter using minimal resources. Specifically, the approach only depends upon a robot's ability to move in an approximate triangular pattern while sampling the received signal strength indicator (RSSI) from its off-the-shelf radio. The RSSI samples are uniquely processed using a combination of regression and vector analysis to estimate the DoA. The proposed technique was evaluated in simulation, as well as in the real world using an actual robot. The evaluation shows an average accuracy improvement of over 30 degrees, as well as a reduction of over 80% in sampling movement, when compared to related work.

DONE