Identification and antifungal activity of Streptomyces sp. S72 isolated from Lake Oubeira sediments in North- East of Algeria
The aim of this study was to identify a new actinomycete isolate Streptomyces sp. S72 with antifungal activity from sediments of Oubeira’s Lake located at the North-East of Algeria. This isolate was identified based on a great variety of morphological, cultural, physiological and molecular characteristics analysis of 16S rDNA sequence. The test of antifungal activity for several pathogens fungi causing invasive aspergillosis and systemic candidiasis revealed that the Streptomyces sp. S72 was a good moderate antifungal compound producer against Aspergillus fumigatus and Candida albicans, and had no activity against Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus niger, Candida pseudotropicalis and Candida tropicalis.

Characterization of Streptomyces strain SLO-105 isolated from Lake Oubeira sediments in North-East of Algeria
A microbial strain, SLO-105, isolated from Lake Oubeira sediment was screened for its antimicrobial activity against pathogenic bacteria and fungi. The strain showed broad-spectrum antibacterial activity against Gram-positive bacteria Staphylococcus aureus MRSA, Bacillus subtilus, Micrococcus leutus, Streptococcus fecalis and fungi Aspergillus niger and Rodotorulla mucilaginosa. However, no activity of the strain was observed against Gram negative bacteria Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa as well as on fungi Candida albicans. Analysis of 16S rDNA sequence and the morphological and physiological characteristics of the strain suggested that the isolate belonged to Streptomyces genus.

Evaluation of antifungal activity of novel marine actinomycete, Streptomyces sp. AA13 isolated from sediments of Lake Oubeira (Algeria) against Candida albicans
A new actinomycete strain, designated AA13 was isolated from a marine sediment sample obtained from Lake Oubeira, in the North-East of Algeria and selected for its antifungal activities against Candida albicans. Morphological, physiological and biochemical properties and 16S rRNA gene sequencing strongly suggested that this strain was a new species, which belonged to the genus Streptomyces. Study of the influence of different nutritional compounds and culture conditions on growth and production of compounds with antifungal activity by the Streptomyces sp. strain AA13 indicated that the highest biomass and biological activities were obtained by utilizing the glycerol and peptone as carbon and nitrogen sources, respectively, with pH 7.0 and incubation temperature of 30°C. Two bioactive spots were detected by analysis of the ethyl acetate extract by thin-layer chromatography (TLC) and bioautography analyses. Among these bioactive compounds (antibiotics), a complex AA13-B that showed the interesting antifungal activity, was selected and purified by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), which indicated the presence of three peaks. Interestingly, the infrared spectroscopy (IR) studies showed that the molecule AA13-B2 contain an aromatic ring substituted by aliphatic chains. However, the investigations which determine the structure of the antifungal molecule are in progress. 
 
   
 
 Key words: Streptomyces, antifungal activity, Candida albicans, Lake Oubeira, sediments.

Antibacterial activity and global reactivity descriptors of some newly synthesized unsymmetrical sulfamides
In the present study a series of unsymmetric linear sulfamides (1-9) starting from a primary amine were synthesized and their structures were confirmed by elemental analyses, mass spectrometry and 1H NMR techniques. All the synthesized compounds were screened for their antibacterial activities by both disc diusion and minimal inhibition concentration (MIC) methods. Frontier molecular orbital (FMO) analysis and global reactivity descriptors have been performed using the density functional theory (DFT) with the B3LYP functional. The results indicated that these derivatives, depending of their substituted radical, bring about an improvement in the bacterial activity. keywords: Unsymmetric Sulfamides, Antibacterial Activity, Global Reactivity, Minimum Inhibitory Concentrations (MIC).

Caracterisation Physico-Chimique Des Eaux Du Barrage Foum El-Khanga (Region De Souk-Ahras, Algerie)‏‎
The objective of our work is to assess the quality of the dam Foum El-Khanga (east of Algeria) monthly during the year 2014. This study planned to make a physico-chemical characterization to highlight several parameters which come into play the determination of the quality of this water such as: temperature; pH; conductivity; turbidity; dissolved oxygen; title hydrotimetric; calcium; magnesium; title alcalimetric complet; nitrate; nitrite; ammoniacal nitrogen; sulfate; chloride; bicarbonate; phosphate; iron; biological oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demands (COD). The results of physico-chemical analysis show that the water of this dam is characterized by a significant mineralization as indicated by high values of electrical conductivity and chloride. The results of principal component analysis (PCA) clearly showed a stronger relation between the hot season and temperature. However, the cold season was strongly correlated with mineralization and pollution parameters.

The Propolis: Antimicrobial activity and chemical composition analysis: Properties of propolis
Over the last few years, propolis has been the object of many studies conducted around the world, and its biological properties and chemical composition have been widely investigated. The present study focuses on the evaluation of the antimicrobial activity as well as an examination of the chemical composition of two samples of propolis from Eastern Algeria coming from the commune of El Mechrouha and Ouled Driss in the wilaya of Souk-Ahras. The two samples are tested for their antimicrobial power by undertaking the agar diffusion technique on eight pathogenic microbial strains (six bacterial strains and two fungal strains) which are: Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumonia, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptococcus thoraltensis, , , Candida famata and Aspergillus niger. The results obtained clearly show the impact of propolis on the microbial susceptibility of Gram-positive bacteria (S. agalactiae and S. aureus), as well as on fungal species (C. famata and A. niger). The analysis of the chemical composition of the ethanolic extracts of the two propolis by UV-visible absorption spectrometry and thin layer chromatography showed that Algerian propolis is wealthy in phenolic compounds, and high performance liquid chromatography allowed the identification of four polyphenols (Gallic acid, Caffeic acid, Quercetin and Catechin). These outcomes permitted a first assessment of the two propolis which present comparable components in their chemical compositions.

Kaouachi Nouha, BOualleg Chahinez,(2014)
Effect of Peganum harmala L. extract supplemented ISP2 medium on growth and production of secondary metabolites of Streptomyces ayarius S115
Ethnobotanical survey of the Apiaceae family species used in the region of Souk-Ahras (northeastern Algeria).
ÉTUDE COMPARATIVE DE LA QUALITÉ PHYSICO-CHIMIQUE DES EAUX DES BARRAGES AIN DALIA ET FOUM EL-KHANGA, RÉGION DE SOUK-AHRAS (ALGÉRIE).
Caractérisation physico-chimique et bactériologiques des eaux brute et potables du Barrage Ain Dalia (Souk-Ahras)
RESUME. Dans cette investigation, les analyses physico-chimiques (temperature, pH, conductivite electrique, turbidite, oxygene dissous, chlore residuel, azote ammoniacal, durete totale *Calcium+ Magnesium*, matieres oxydables en milieu acide, titre alcalimetrique complet, sulfates, fer, chlorures, nitrites, nitrates, phosphates, Bicarbonates) et bacteriologiques (Coliformes totaux et thermo-tolerant et Streptocoques fecaux) ont ete utilisee pour l’evaluation de la qualite des eaux brutes et traitees du barrage Ain Dalia pendant une periode de trois mois (mars, avril et mai).

Identification and Antibacterial Activity of Streptomyces mediolani CF51DZ Isolated from the Beetle (Protaetia morio), Collected from Souk Ahras, North-East of Algeria.
In this study, an Actinomycetota Streptomyces mediolani strain CF51DZ was isolated from a beetle Protaetia morio collected in a cork oak forest in northeast Algeria, to extract, purify and characterize the antibacterial compound. The strain was isolated in specific ISP culture media, identified via morphological, biochemical, physiological and molecular characteristics and then studied its antibacterial activities against pathogenic bacteria using the well diffusion technique. The extraction, purification and characterization of the bioactive compound was carried out using chromatographic and spectroscopic methods. Morphological, physiological, and biochemical properties, as well as the 16S ribosomal DNA sequence of the strain, were found close to those of Streptomyces mediolani. The isolated strain produced an active compound having potent antibacterial properties against Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Staphylococcus aureus. This compound was isolated and purified with thin layer chromatography and high-performance liquid chromatography, and chemically identified by mass spectroscopy and NMR spectroscopy. In addition, the chemical structure elucidation of the antibacterial metabolite by APCI-MS analysis revealed a peak at m/z 375 [M+H]+, a molecular formula of C19H18O8. This compound was identified as methyl rosarinate: 3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-1-methoxy-1-oxopropan-2-yl (E)-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)acrylate based on the IUPAC nomenclature. Moreover, the antibacterial agent was purified from Streptomyces mediolani strain CF51DZ that was for the first time, in Algeria, isolated from the beetle Protaetia morio. This supports further characterization of this promising chemical to ensure the best use for antibacterial applications.

Antioxidant and Anticholinesterase Effects of Methanol Extract, and Consecutive Fractions of Peganum harmala L.
Antioxidant and Anticholinesterase Effects of Methanol Extract, And Consecutive Fractions of Peganum harmala L.
Manuel de Cours et Travaux Pratiques de MICROBIOLOGIE GENERALE
Comparative study of the physicochemical water quality of the Ain Dalia and Foum El-Khanga dams, Souk Ahras region (Algeria).
Qualité physico-chimique de l'eau brute et traitée du barrage Ain Dali: Analyse d'eau
RESUME. Dans cette investigation, les analyses physico-chimiques (temperature, pH, conductivite electrique, turbidite, oxygene dissous, chlore residuel, azote ammoniacal, durete totale *Calcium+ Magnesium*, matieres oxydables en milieu acide, titre alcalimetrique complet, sulfates, fer, chlorures, nitrites, nitrates, phosphates, Bicarbonates) et bacteriologiques (Coliformes totaux et thermo-tolerant et Streptocoques fecaux) ont ete utilisee pour l’evaluation de la qualite des eaux brutes et traitees du barrage Ain Dalia pendant une periode de trois mois (mars, avril et mai).

EVOLUTION SPATIO-TEMPORELLE DES CYANOBACTERIES FILAMENTEUSES PEUPLANT LE BARRAGE D'AIN EL DALIA (SOUK AHRAS)
Cyanobacteria are responsible for catastrophic even ts to aquatic life animals. Our our study extends from October 2012 to September 2013 in the dam Ain Dalia El Souk Ahras. The morphological and anatomical characteristic obs ervations of cyanobacteria filamentous schows the presence of 12 genera ( Oscillataria, Phormidium, Anabaena, Pseudoanabaena, Aphanizomenon, Nodularia, and Spirulina), which are potentially toxic. Among these toxic genera Oscillatoria is omnipresent; Lyngbya and Phormidium are constant, and Pseudoanabaena is regular. The monthly evolution of the Cyanobacteria filamentous densit y how that the highest values are recorded during December, October (autu mn), February, March (winter), and June (spring) However, the low values are obser ved during November and April months . The spatio-temporal variation of cyanobacteria de nsities revealed the presence of Oscillatoria, Lyngbya, Phormidium and Pseudanabaena in treated water (30 ind/l) in December and June in the site 2, cyanobacteria are strongly represented in November (40 ind /l) in February (55 ind/l) and in June (70 ind / l). In the site 3 levels over 35 Ind / l are noted in Janu ary, March, April and May. It is however the site 4 that are rated 4 pics 85 ind / l , 60 ind / l, 50 ind / l and 40 ind / l respectively in October, December, March and June. The calculation of genus densities reveals the dominance of Oscillatoria and Lyngbya followed by Pseudoanabaena ., Some genus prefer the autumn and spring season (Oscillatoria, Pseudanabaena ), other (Phormidium) the spring or ( Lyngbya) the winter season. 1er Séminaire National sur la Santé et Bio-Surveillance des Ecosystèmes Aquatiques University of Souk Ahras Université Mohamed Chérif Messaadia de Souk-Ahras http://www.univ-soukahras.dz/en/publication/article/145 3 Ain El Dalia dams should be more closely monitore d in order to better protect of users health.

Les conséquences de l’infection par le rotavirus sur l’adressage basolatéral des protéines dans les cellules épithéliales polarisées Caco-2.
Les conséquences de l'infection par le rotavirus sur l'adressage basolatéral desz protéines dans les cellules épithéliales polarisées Caco-2.
DONE