Situated engineering learning: Bridging engineering education research and the learning sciences
Indigo Esmonde, University of Toronto; Krishna Madhavan, Purdue University; Wolff‐Michael Roth, University of Victoria; Dan L. Schwartz and Jessica Tsang, Stanford University; Estrid Sørensen, Humboldt University and Aarhus University; Iris Tabak, Ben Gurion University of the Negev

On the development of a professional identity: Engineering persisters vs engineering switchers
Decline in engineering enrollment continues and renewed efforts are required to improve enrollment and diversity. Herein, we address this problem by conducting research to understand engineering students through the lens of identity theory. Implications of this effort are twofold: (1) to contribute to our basic understanding of engineering students' identities as well as what factors (experiences and settings) foster the formation and transformation of these identities during the undergraduate experience, and from these findings (2) to gain insight into improving recruitment and retention of engineering students, particularly students underrepresented in engineering. By conducting focus groups and interviews, our goal was to understand professional identity development in freshman engineering persisters and freshman engineering switchers. Initial findings suggest that exposure to meaningful engineering-related experiences and engineers are critical in developing an engineer identity. Our future efforts involve understanding the longitudinal nature of professional identity development (from freshman to senior years).

Uses and gratifications of pokémon go: Why do people play mobile location-based augmented reality games?
ABSTRACT In recent years, augmented reality games (ARGs) such as Pokémon Go have become increasingly popular. These games not only afford a novel gaming experience but also have the potential to alter how players view their physical realities. In addition to the common experiences and gratifications people derive from games, (location-based) ARGs can afford, for example outdoor adventures, communal activities, and health benefits, but also create problems stemming from, for example privacy concerns and poor usability. This raises some important research questions as to what drives people to use these new applications, and why they may be willing to spend money on the content sold within them. In this study, we investigate the various gratifications people derive from ARGs (Pokémon Go) and the relationship of these gratifications with the players’ intentions to continue playing and spending money on them. We employ data drawn from players of Pokémon Go (N = 1190) gathered through an online survey. The results indicate that game enjoyment, outdoor activity, ease of use, challenge, and nostalgia are positively associated with intentions to reuse (ITR), meanwhile outdoor activity, challenge, competition, socializing, nostalgia and ITR are associated with in-app purchase intentions (IPI). In contrast with our expectations, privacy concerns or trendiness were not associated with reuse intentions or IPI.

Professional engineering work
Introduction The focus of our chapter is on current research-based understandings of professional engineering work. We argue for the relevance of these understandings to engineering education. We will also argue, as others have as well (Barley, 2004; Trevelyan, 2007, 2010; Vinck, 2003), that research on professional engineering work is too sparse. Therefore a good part of this chapter is oriented in a programmatic, agenda setting direction. From the perspective of engineering education, the sparseness of research on professional engineering work is puzzling for a number of reasons. First, engineering education is often reorganized against the backdrop of claims about what professional engineering work is now or will be in the future. Without trustworthy and specific representations of engineering work practice and of the dispositions, skills, and identity orientations of professional engineers, how are engineering educators to know whether engineering education is preparing engineering students to be successful, creative, or impactful engineers? A prominent consensus report from the National Academy of Engineering highlights a “disconnect between engineers in practice and engineers in academe” (National Academy of Engineering [NAE], 2005, pp. 20–21). The report stated that “the great majority of engineering faculty, for example, have no industry experience. Industry representatives point to this disconnect as the reason that engineering students are not adequately prepared, in their view, to enter today's workforce” (National Academy of Engineering [NAE], 2005, pp. 20–21). It is important that a focus on “preparation” of future engineers not be tied to an agenda that solely emphasizes what professional engineering “needs” and economic competitiveness. It also is possible to organize an engineering educational system to prepare recent graduates to be change agents and participants in new social movements within engineering work practice. However, in either case, concrete images of engineering work are critical resources for rethinking engineering education and making empirically based assessments of progress.

Correlates of social media fatigue and academic performance decrement: A large cross-sectional study
PurposeThe current study aims to investigate if different measures related to online psychosocial well-being and online behavior correlate with social media fatigue.Design/methodology/approachTo understand the antecedents and consequences of social media fatigue, the stressor-strain-outcome (SSO) framework is applied. The study consists of two cross-sectional surveys that were organized with young-adult students. Study A was conducted with 1,398 WhatsApp users (aged 19 to 27 years), while Study B was organized with 472 WhatsApp users (aged 18 to 23 years).FindingsIntensity of social media use was the strongest predictor of social media fatigue. Online social comparison and self-disclosure were also significant predictors of social media fatigue. The findings also suggest that social media fatigue further contributes to a decrease in academic performance.Originality/valueThis study builds upon the limited yet growing body of literature on a theme highly relevant for scholars, practitioners as well as social media users. The current study focuses on examining different causes of social media fatigue induced through the use of a highly popular mobile instant messaging app, WhatsApp. The SSO framework is applied to explore and establish empirical links between stressors and social media fatigue.

Next-term student performance prediction: A recommender systems approach
An enduring issue in higher education is student retention to successful graduation. National statistics indicate that most higher education institutions have four-year degree completion rates around 50%, or just half of their student populations. While there are prediction models which illuminate what factors assist with college student success, interventions that support course selections on a semester-to-semester basis have yet to be deeply understood. To further this goal, we develop a system to predict students’ grades in the courses they will enroll in during the next enrollment term by learning patterns from historical transcript data coupled with additional information about students, courses and the instructors teaching them. We explore a variety of classic and state-of-the-art techniques which have proven effective for recommendation tasks in the e-commerce domain. In our experiments, Factorization Machines (FM), Random Forests (RF), and the Personalized Multi-Linear Regression model achieve the lowest prediction error. Application of a novel feature selection technique is key to the predictive success and interpretability of the FM. By comparing feature importance across populations and across models, we uncover strong connections between instructor characteristics and student performance. We also discover key differences between transfer and non-transfer students. Ultimately we find that a hybrid FM-RF method can be used to accurately predict grades for both new and returning students taking both new and existing courses. Application of these techniques holds promise for student degree planning, instructor interventions, and personalized advising, all of which could improve retention and academic performance.

Use of Twitter across educational settings: a review of the literature
Cambridge handbook of engineering education research
Aditya Johri and Barbara M. Olds, eds., Cambridge Handbook of Engineering Education Research, Cambridge University Press, 2014, ISBN: 978-1-107-01410-7.

Needle in a haystack: Identifying learner posts that require urgent response in MOOC discussion forums
The socio-materiality of learning practices and implications for the field of learning technology.
Although the use of digital information technologies in education has becomecommonplace, there are few, if any, central guiding frameworks or theories thatexplicate the relationship between technology and learning practices. In thispaper, I argue that such a theoretical framework can assist scholars and practitionersalike by working as a conduit to study and design learning technologies.Towards this goal, I propose socio-materiality as a key theoretical construct withvaluable insights and implications for the field of learning technology. Sociomaterialityhelps balance the disproportionate attention given to either the socialimplications of technology use or the material aspects of technology design.Furthermore, I forward ‘socio-material bricolage’ as a useful analytical frameworkto examine and design technology-infused learning environments. I illustratethe value of the framework by applying it to three case studies of formaland informal technology-based learning. 10.1080/21567069.2011.624169

Systematic review of discussion forums in massive open online courses (MOOCs)
Discussion forums are the primary and most widely used venue for social learning and communication in MOOC context. There has been an interest in the last few years to study the interactions and participation behavior in this environment. This systematic review studied eighty-four papers published between 2013–2017 to provide a state of the art, and suggest future directions in the literature from two perspectives: descriptive analysis and content analysis. The descriptive analysis aggregates the reviewed papers into five dimensions: time of the publication, stakeholders involved in the analysis, objectives, methods, and data sources used in the studies. The content analysis aims to highlight the main issues addressed and the major contributions of the papers covered by the literature review. These contributions can be categorized into three major areas, first, explore the relationship between forums participation and retention or learning outcomes and evaluate ways to increase the participation activity and learning outcomes, second, analyze participants’ contribution in the forum and how to organize the content and efficiently monitor them, finally, analyze participants’ interactions and how it influences learning. At the end, we offer some suggestions to further advance this area of research.

Situative frameworks for engineering learning research
Running out of stem: a comparative study across stem majors of college students at-risk of dropping out early
Higher education institutions in the United States and across the Western world face a critical problem of attrition of college students and this problem is particularly acute within the Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) fields. Students are especially vulnerable in the initial years of their academic programs; more than 60% of the dropouts occur in the first two years. Therefore, early identification of at-risk students is crucial for a focused intervention if institutions are to support students towards completion. In this paper we developed and evaluated a survival analysis framework for the early identification of students at the risk of dropping out. We compared the performance of survival analysis approaches to other machine learning approaches including logistic regression, decision trees and boosting. The proposed methods show good performance for early prediction of at-risk students and are also able to predict when a student will dropout with high accuracy. We performed a comparative analysis of nine different majors with varying levels of academic rigor, challenge and student body. This study enables advisors and university administrators to intervene in advance to improve student retention.

Predicting performance on MOOC assessments using multi-regression models
The past few years has seen the rapid growth of data min- ing approaches for the analysis of data obtained from Mas- sive Open Online Courses (MOOCs). The objectives of this study are to develop approaches to predict the scores a stu- dent may achieve on a given grade-related assessment based on information, considered as prior performance or prior ac- tivity in the course. We develop a personalized linear mul- tiple regression (PLMR) model to predict the grade for a student, prior to attempting the assessment activity. The developed model is real-time and tracks the participation of a student within a MOOC (via click-stream server logs) and predicts the performance of a student on the next as- sessment within the course offering. We perform a com- prehensive set of experiments on data obtained from three openEdX MOOCs via a Stanford University initiative. Our experimental results show the promise of the proposed ap- proach in comparison to baseline approaches and also helps in identification of key features that are associated with the study habits and learning behaviors of students.

Learning analytics tools in higher education: Adoption at the intersection of institutional commitment and individual action
Abstract:An instrumental case study was conducted at a large, public research university to understand the organizational barriers, incentives, and opportunities related to adoption of learning analytics tools by faculty members and professional advising staff. Data was culled from focus groups with six faculty and twenty-one advisors and from interview and observation sessions with two faculty and three advisors. Preliminary results indicate that organizational context and commitment, including structures, policies, processes, and leadership impact individual decisions to trust and adopt learning analytics tools. Further, results indicate the importance of a comprehensive, inclusive, and well-communicated implementation plan for maximum adoption by users.

Technological barriers and incentives to learning analytics adoption in higher education: Insights from users
Digital payment and its discontents: Street shops and the Indian government's push for cashless transactions
In November 2016, the Government of India banned the vast majority of the nation's banknotes in a move referred to as 'demonetization', with the stated goals of fighting corruption, terrorism, and eventually expanding digital transactions. In this study of 200 shop-keepers in Mumbai and Bengaluru, we found that cash shortage increased digital payment adoption but that digital payments fell after new banknotes became available. Digital payment adoption depended on the nature and scope of transactions, type of product sold, as well as personal factors specific to business owners such as comfort and familiarity with other digital technologies and online transactions. Using theoretical work on market and information behavior, we examined environmental pushes for technology adoption against prevalent transactional practices, trust, and control. We propose that the move toward digital payments must be framed within a larger undertaking of technology-driven modernity that drives these initiatives, rather than just the efficiency or productivity gains digital payments present.

Learning analytics in higher education
It is known that big data has penetrated several if not all spheres of life. In higher education, the ability to take these large amounts of data and process it into something meaningful for academic decision making is commonly referred to as learning analytics. This chapter provides an overview of learning analytics and its importance, as well as identifying academic data sources, techniques used for learning analytics and prediction, and data visualisation techniques used to present analysis for better understanding and eventual decision making. It also includes a discussion of learning analytics frameworks for research and some identified research challenges.

Sociomaterial bricolage: The creation of location-spanning work practices by global software developers
Capable and convivial design (CCD): a framework for designing information and communication technologies for human development
Scholarship and implementation in information and communication technologies for development (ICTD/ICT4D) have seen an exponential increase over the past decade. In spite of enormous headway in both research and application, ICTD lacks a clear unified framework that can guide contextually grounded user-focussed design of ICT. This shortcoming results largely from the field's unusual placement at the intersection of research, policy, and practice, each driven by different philosophical traditions and application intentions. We argue that this gap can be overcome by adopting design-based approaches in ICTD. Towards this end, we advance a design framework – capable and convivial design (CCD) – that appropriates Sen's idea of capabilities and Illich's notion of conviviality. We contend that these two sets of complementary theoretical traditions are markedly well suited to guide the design of contextually relevant and user empowering ICTs. We test the CCD framework against multiple input shared computing, a well-documented ICTD case, to illustrate its analytical usefulness and improve its analytical precision. Annika Andersson, Åke Grönlund and Gudrun Wicander are the accepting Guest Editors for this article.

DONE