Tools for inventing organizations: Toward a handbook of organizational processes
The paper describes a new project intended to provide a firmer theoretical and empirical foundation for such tasks as enterprise modeling, enterprise integration, and process re-engineering. The project includes: (1) collecting examples of how different organizations perform similar processes, and (2) representing these examples in an on-line 'process handbook' which includes the relative advantages of the alternatives. The handbook is intended to help: (a) redesign existing organizational processes, (b) invent new organizational processes that take advantage of information technology, and perhaps (c) automatically generate software to support organizational processes. A key element of the work is a novel approach to representing processes at various levels of abstraction. This approach uses ideas from computer science about inheritance and from coordination theory about managing dependencies. Its primary advantage is that it allows users to explicity represent the similarities (and differences) among related processes and to easily find or generate sensible alternatives for how a given process could be performed.<<ETX>>

Hexastore: sextuple indexing for semantic web data management
Despite the intense interest towards realizing the Semantic Web vision, most existing RDF data management schemes are constrained in terms of efficiency and scalability. Still, the growing popularity of the RDF format arguably calls for an effort to offset these drawbacks. Viewed from a relational-database perspective, these constraints are derived from the very nature of the RDF data model, which is based on a triple format. Recent research has attempted to address these constraints using a vertical-partitioning approach, in which separate two-column tables are constructed for each property. However, as we show, this approach suffers from similar scalability drawbacks on queries that are not bound by RDF property value. In this paper, we propose an RDF storage scheme that uses the triple nature of RDF as an asset. This scheme enhances the vertical partitioning idea and takes it to its logical conclusion. RDF data is indexed in six possible ways, one for each possible ordering of the three RDF elements. Each instance of an RDF element is associated with two vectors; each such vector gathers elements of one of the other types, along with lists of the third-type resources attached to each vector element. Hence, a sextuple-indexing scheme emerges. This format allows for quick and scalable general-purpose query processing; it confers significant advantages (up to five orders of magnitude) compared to previous approaches for RDF data management, at the price of a worst-case five-fold increase in index space. We experimentally document the advantages of our approach on real-world and synthetic data sets with practical queries.

Fair and balanced? bias in bug-fix datasets
Software engineering researchers have long been interested in where and why bugs occur in code, and in predicting where they might turn up next. Historical bug-occurence data has been key to this research. Bug tracking systems, and code version histories, record when, how and by whom bugs were fixed; from these sources, datasets that relate file changes to bug fixes can be extracted. These historical datasets can be used to test hypotheses concerning processes of bug introduction, and also to build statistical bug prediction models. Unfortunately, processes and humans are imperfect, and only a fraction of bug fixes are actually labelled in source code version histories, and thus become available for study in the extracted datasets. The question naturally arises, are the bug fixes recorded in these historical datasets a fair representation of the full population of bug fixes? In this paper, we investigate historical data from several software projects, and find strong evidence of systematic bias. We then investigate the potential effects of "unfair, imbalanced" datasets on the performance of prediction techniques. We draw the lesson that bias is a critical problem that threatens both the effectiveness of processes that rely on biased datasets to build prediction models and the generalizability of hypotheses tested on biased data.

SPARQL basic graph pattern optimization using selectivity estimation
In this paper, we formalize the problem of Basic Graph Pattern (BGP) optimization for SPARQL queries and main memory graph implementations of RDF data. We define and analyze the characteristics of heuristics for selectivity-based static BGP optimization. The heuristics range from simple triple pattern variable counting to more sophisticated selectivity estimation techniques. Customized summary statistics for RDF data enable the selectivity estimation of joined triple patterns and the development of efficient heuristics. Using the Lehigh University Benchmark (LUBM), we evaluate the performance of the heuristics for the queries provided by the LUBM and discuss some of them in more details.

Toward intelligent assistance for a data mining process: An ontology-based approach for cost-sensitive classification
A data mining (DM) process involves multiple stages. A simple, but typical, process might include preprocessing data, applying a data mining algorithm, and postprocessing the mining results. There are many possible choices for each stage, and only some combinations are valid. Because of the large space and nontrivial interactions, both novices and data mining specialists need assistance in composing and selecting DM processes. Extending notions developed for statistical expert systems we present a prototype intelligent discovery assistant (IDA), which provides users with 1) systematic enumerations of valid DM processes, in order that important, potentially fruitful options are not overlooked, and 2) effective rankings of these valid processes by different criteria, to facilitate the choice of DM processes to execute. We use the prototype to show that an IDA can indeed provide useful enumerations and effective rankings in the context of simple classification processes. We discuss how an IDA could be an important tool for knowledge sharing among a team of data miners. Finally, we illustrate the claims with a demonstration of cost-sensitive classification using a more complicated process and data from the 1998 KDDCUP competition.

Improving performance, perceived usability, and aesthetics with culturally adaptive user interfaces
When we investigate the usability and aesthetics of user interfaces, we rarely take into account that what users perceive as beautiful and usable strongly depends on their cultural background. In this paper, we argue that it is not feasible to design one interface that appeals to all users of an increasingly global audience. Instead, we propose to design culturally adaptive systems, which automatically generate personalized interfaces that correspond to cultural preferences. In an evaluation of one such system, we demonstrate that a majority of international participants preferred their personalized versions over a nonadapted interface of the same Website. Results show that users were 22% faster using the culturally adapted interface, needed fewer clicks, and made fewer errors, in line with subjective results demonstrating that they found the adapted version significantly easier to use. Our findings show that interfaces that adapt to cultural preferences can immensely increase the user experience.

Knowing what a user likes: A design science approach to interfaces that automatically adapt to culture
Adapting user interfaces to a user's cultural background can increase satisfaction, revenue, and market share. Conventional approaches to catering for culture are restricted to adaptations for specific countries and modify only a limited number of interface components, such as the language or date and time formats. We argue that a more comprehensive personalization of interfaces to cultural background is needed to appeal to users in expanding markets. This paper introduces a low-cost, yet efficient method to achieve this goal: cultural adaptivity. Culturally adaptive interfaces are able to adapt their look and feel to suit visual preferences. In a design science approach, we have developed a number of artifacts that support cultural adaptivity, including a prototype web application. We evaluate the efficacy of the prototype's automatically generated interfaces by comparing them with the preferred interfaces of 105 Rwandan, Swiss, Thai, and multicultural users. The findings demonstrate the feasibility of providing users with interfaces that correspond to their cultural preferences in a novel yet effective manner.

GINO–a guided input natural language ontology editor
The missing links: bugs and bug-fix commits
Empirical studies of software defects rely on links between bug databases and program code repositories. This linkage is typically based on bug-fixes identified in developer-entered commit logs. Unfortunately, developers do not always report which commits perform bug-fixes. Prior work suggests that such links can be a biased sample of the entire population of fixed bugs. The validity of statistical hypotheses-testing based on linked data could well be affected by bias. Given the wide use of linked defect data, it is vital to gauge the nature and extent of the bias, and try to develop testable theories and models of the bias. To do this, we must establish ground truth: manually analyze a complete version history corpus, and nail down those commits that fix defects, and those that do not. This is a diffcult task, requiring an expert to compare versions, analyze changes, find related bugs in the bug database, reverse-engineer missing links, and finally record their work for use later. This effort must be repeated for hundreds of commits to obtain a useful sample of reported and unreported bug-fix commits. We make several contributions. First, we present Linkster, a tool to facilitate link reverse-engineering. Second, we evaluate this tool, engaging a core developer of the Apache HTTP web server project to exhaustively annotate 493 commits that occurred during a six week period. Finally, we analyze this comprehensive data set, showing that there are serious and consequential problems in the data.

Software infrastructure and design challenges for ubiquitous computing applications
Striving to integrate computing into everyday activities in a seamless manner.

How useful are natural language interfaces to the semantic web for casual end-users?
Querix: A natural language interface to query ontologies based on clarification dialogs
The logic-based machine-understandable framework of the Semantic Web typically challenges casual users when they try to query ontologies. An often proposed solution to help casual users is the use of natural language interfaces. Such tools, however, suffer from one of the biggest problems of natural language: ambiguities. Furthermore, the systems are hardly adaptable to new domains. This paper addresses these issues by presenting Querix, a domain-independent natural language interface for the Semantic Web. The approach allows queries in natural language, thereby asking the user for clarification in case of ambiguities. The preliminary evaluation showed good retrieval performance.

Applied temporal RDF: Efficient temporal querying of RDF data with SPARQL
Serching for services on the semantic web using process ontologies.
Interaction embeddings for prediction and explanation in knowledge graphs
Knowledge graph embedding aims to learn distributed representations for entities and relations, and is proven to be effective in many applications. Crossover interactions -- bi-directional effects between entities and relations --- help select related information when predicting a new triple, but haven't been formally discussed before. In this paper, we propose CrossE, a novel knowledge graph embedding which explicitly simulates crossover interactions. It not only learns one general embedding for each entity and relation as most previous methods do, but also generates multiple triple specific embeddings for both of them, named interaction embeddings. We evaluate embeddings on typical link prediction tasks and find that CrossE achieves state-of-the-art results on complex and more challenging datasets. Furthermore, we evaluate embeddings from a new perspective -- giving explanations for predicted triples, which is important for real applications. In this work, an explanation for a triple is regarded as a reliable closed-path between the head and the tail entity. Compared to other baselines, we show experimentally that CrossE, benefiting from interaction embeddings, is more capable of generating reliable explanations to support its predictions.

Toward high-precision service retrieval
Online repositories are increasingly called on to provide access to services that describe or provide useful behaviors. Existing techniques for finding services offer low retrieval precision, returning many irrelevant matches. We introduce a novel service retrieval approach that captures service semantics using process models, and applies a pattern-matching algorithm to find the services with the behavior the user wants. Evaluations suggest that process-based queries offer substantially greater retrieval precision than existing approaches and scale well with the number of services being accessed.

Evaluating the usability of natural language query languages and interfaces to Semantic Web knowledge bases
Iteratively learning embeddings and rules for knowledge graph reasoning
Reasoning is essential for the development of large knowledge graphs, especially for completion, which aims to infer new triples based on existing ones. Both rules and embeddings can be used for knowledge graph reasoning and they have their own advantages and difficulties. Rule-based reasoning is accurate and explainable but rule learning with searching over the graph always suffers from efficiency due to huge search space. Embedding-based reasoning is more scalable and efficient as the reasoning is conducted via computation between embeddings, but it has difficulty learning good representations for sparse entities because a good embedding relies heavily on data richness. Based on this observation, in this paper we explore how embedding and rule learning can be combined together and complement each other's difficulties with their advantages. We propose a novel framework IterE iteratively learning embeddings and rules, in which rules are learned from embeddings with proper pruning strategy and embeddings are learned from existing triples and new triples inferred by rules. Evaluations on embedding qualities of IterE show that rules help improve the quality of sparse entity embeddings and their link prediction results. We also evaluate the efficiency of rule learning and quality of rules from IterE compared with AMIE+, showing that IterE is capable of generating high quality rules more efficiently. Experiments show that iteratively learning embeddings and rules benefit each other during learning and prediction.

Predicting defect densities in source code files with decision tree learners
With the advent of open source software repositories the data available for defect prediction in source files increased tremendously. Although traditional statistics turned out to derive reasonable results the sheer amount of data and the problem context of defect prediction demand sophisticated analysis such as provided by current data mining and machine learning techniques.In this work we focus on defect density prediction and present an approach that applies a decision tree learner on evolution data extracted from the Mozilla open source web browser project. The evolution data includes different source code, modification, and defect measures computed from seven recent Mozilla releases. Among the modification measures we also take into account the change coupling, a measure for the number of change-dependencies between source files. The main reason for choosing decision tree learners, instead of for example neural nets, was the goal of finding underlying rules which can be easily interpreted by humans. To find these rules, we set up a number of experiments to test common hypotheses regarding defects in software entities. Our experiments showed, that a simple tree learner can produce good results with various sets of input data.

A comparative survey of recent natural language interfaces for databases
DONE