Distributed network protocols
Traffic Engineering (TE) mechanisms in data center networks make distributed forwarding decisions based on the global network state. Thus, new TE mechanisms require the design and implementation of effective information exchange and efficient decentralized algorithms to compute forwarding decisions, which is challenging and time-intensive. To automate and simplify this process, we propose <monospace>Mistill</monospace>. <monospace>Mistill</monospace> distills the forwarding behavior of TE policies from exemplary forwarding decisions into a Neural Network. <monospace>Mistill</monospace> learns (i) how to encode local state into update messages, (ii) which network devices must exchange updates, and (iii) how to map the exchanged updates into forwarding decisions. We demonstrate the abilities of <monospace>Mistill</monospace> by learning three TE policies, verifying their performance in simulations on synthetic and real-world traffic patterns, and by showing that the learned policies generalize to unseen traffic patterns. We implement <monospace>Mistill</monospace> as a proof-of-concept and show that <monospace>Mistill </monospace>reacts on average within 1.3ms to changes in the network.

Energy efficient routing in ad hoc disaster recovery networks
The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 have drawn attention to the use of wireless technology in order to locate survivors of structural collapse. We propose to construct an ad hoc network of wireless smart badges in order to acquire information from trapped survivors. We investigate the energy efficient routing problem that arises in such a network and show that since smart badges have very limited power sources and very low data rates, which may be inadequate in an emergency situation, the solution of the routing problem requires new protocols. The problem is formulated as an anycast routing problem in which the objective is to maximize the time until the first battery drains-out. We present iterative algorithms for obtaining the optimal solution of the problem. Then, we derive an upper bound on the network lifetime for specific topologies. Finally, a polynomial algorithm for obtaining the optimal solution in such topologies is described.

A failsafe distributed routing protocol
An algorithm for constructing and adaptively maintaining routing tables in communication networks is presented. The algorithm can be employed in message as well as circuit switching networks, uses distributed computation, provides routing tables that are loop-free for each destination at all times, adapts to changes in network flows, and is completely failsafe. The latter means that after arbitrary failures and additions, the network recovers in finite time in the sense of providing routing paths between all physically connected nodes. For each destination, the routes are independently updated by an update cycle triggered by the destination.

The modeling of adaptive routing in data-communication networks
Basic analytical models for problems of dynamic and quasi-static routing in data-communication networks are introduced. The models are intended to handle the quantities of interest in an algorithmic form, and as such require only a minimal number of assumptions. Control and estimation methods are used to construct algorithms for the solution of the routing problem.

Bit allocation and encoding for vector sources
This paper considers the problem of efficient transmission of vector sources over a digital noiseless channel. It treats the problem of optimal allocation of the total number of available bits to the components of a memoryless stationary vector source with independent components. This allocation is applied to various encoding schemes, such as minimum mean-square error, sample-by-sample quantization, or entropy quantization. We also give the optimally decorrelating scheme for a source whose components are dependent and treat the problems of selecting the optimum characteristic of the encoding scheme such that the overall mean-squared error is minimized. Several examples of encoding schemes, including the ideal encoder that achieves the rated istortion bound, and of sources related to a practical problem are discussed.

Distributed network control for optical networks
This paper describes an architecture for controlling a wavelength-routed optical network. The optical network provides reconfigurable connections that can be used to carry different types of data, at possibly different bit rates. A connection consists of a path in the network and a wavelength on each link in that path. This work focuses on the mechanisms for controlling the optical connections. Distributed control protocols are provided for setting up and taking down connections reliably. These protocols allow connection originators to obtain resources with high probability by minimizing reservation conflicts, allow connections to stay up even if controllers along the path in the network fail, ensure that controllers in the network have a consistent view of the state of each connection, and ensure that all resources taken up by a connection are released once the connection is taken down. Fast protocols are also proposed for handling link failures and wavelength failures on a link. These protocols are general in that they can be used in networks with: (1) different kinds of node architectures (electrical/optical switching, with or without wavelength conversion, etc.), (2) different route-computation algorithms that reflect the underlying constraints imposed by the nodes and the physical layer, and (3) any kind of underlying mechanism using which the network controllers can communicate with each other.

A routing vector method (RVM) for routing in Bluetooth scatternets
Bluetooth is a promising new technology for short range wireless connectivity between mobile devices. Initially, Bluetooth will be used as a replacement for point to-(multi)point cables. However, in due course of time, solutions for forming multihop ad hoc networks over Bluetooth (referred to as scatternets) will be needed. In this paper, we explore the design space of routing protocols over Bluetooth scatternets. We argue that ad hoc routing protocols for Bluetooth must make a different set off design compromises compared to those being developed by the MANET working group. These differences result primarily from the specific characteristics of the Bluetooth physical and link layer. Our proposed routing method is based on the concept of route vector, which is an efficient method for encoding source route paths in Bluetooth scatternets. We describe the protocols for route discovery and packet forwarding. Our design illustrates three main design compromises, namely minimization of soft-state, protocol simplicity, and bandwidth conservation, all of are crucial for efficient operation over small size Bluetooth scatternets.

An optimal control approach to dynamic routing in networks
This paper explores the application of optimal control theory to the problem of dynamic routing in networks. The approach derives from a continuous state space model for dynamic routing and an associated linear optimal control problem with linear state and control variable inequality constraints. The conceptual form of an algorithm is presented for finding a feedback solution to the optimal control problem when the inputs are assumed to be constant in time. The algorithm employs a combination of necessary conditions, dynamic programming, and linear programming to construct a set of convex polyhedral cones which cover the admissible state space with optimal controls. An implementable form of the algorithm, along with a simple example, is presented for a special class of single destination networks.

Two interfering queues in packet-radio networks
We consider several classes of interfering queues that appear in packet-radio networks. We analyze the class of systems where one of the queues is given full priority and obtain an expression for the joint probability distribution of the queue lengths. For ALOHA-type systems with two symmetric queues we calculate the average packet waiting time and queue lengths, and for symmetric systems with an arbitrary number of subscribers we develop a method to approximate these quantities. The approximation turns out to be close to the analysis and simulation results.

Recursive estimation from discrete-time point processes
The paper presents models for discrete-time point processes (DTPP) and schemes for recursive estimation of signals randomly influencing their rates. Although the models are similar to the better known models of signals in additive Gaussian noise, DTPP differ from these in that it is possible for DTPP's to find recursive representations for the nonlinear filters. If the signal can be modeled as a finite state Markov process, then these representations reduce to explicit recursive finite-dimensional filters. The derivation of the estimation schemes, as well as the filters themselves, present a surprising similarity to the Kalman filters for signals in Gaussian noise. We present finally an application of the estimation schemes derived in the paper to the estimation of the state of a random time-division multiple access (ALOHA-type) computer network.

Nonlinear filtering with counting observations
We apply some recent results in martingale theory and the innovations method to obtain the evolution of the conditional mean and conditional density of a process that modulates the rate of a counting process.

Distributed network control for wavelength routed optical networks
This paper describes an architecture for adding an underlying wavelength-routed optical layer to a standard ATM network. The optical layer provides reconfigurable lightpaths that serve as links between electronic ATM switches. A lightpath is carried on a particular wavelength and path in the underlying optical wavelength-routed network. This work focuses on the mechanisms for controlling the optical layer. Distributed control protocols are provided for setting up and taking down lightpaths reliably and for updating the topology of the network, including the lightpaths. These protocols allow lightpath originators to obtain resources with high probability by minimizing reservation conflicts, allow lightpaths to stay up even if controllers along the path in the network fail, ensure that controllers in the network have a consistent view of the state of each lightpath, and ensure that all resources taken up by a lightpath are released once the lightpath is taken down.

The modeling of randomly modulated jump processes
We treat the problem of modeling events happening randomly in time at a rate determined by some other random "signal" process. It is shown that a martingale model includes all previously proposed models for such problems and also covers the difficult case of "past-dependent" signals that arises in feedback communication and control problems. It turns out that this model is very similar to the well-known signal-in-additive-white-Gaussian-noise model, so that it can be used conveniently in solving problems of detection of signals in jump processes and estimation of signals from jump processes.

Setting up, taking down and maintaining connections in a communications network
Connection management and rerouting in ATM networks
In ATM networks, two levels of connections are defined: virtual path connections and virtual channel connections. Virtual paths are the building blocks of the virtual channels. This hierarchy, known as "the virtual path concept", provides considerable advantages in the design of high-speed networks. In the paper the authors show that this concept has the advantage of providing a means of improving the survivability of virtual channels. To this end, they present a simple rerouting protocol, which can be invoked upon the failure of an intermediate link or node of a virtual path. This protocol reroutes all the affected virtual channels to an alternative virtual path. Due to the simplicity of the protocol, it can be completed rapidly, thus fulfilling an essential requirement of any rerouting scheme.<<ETX>>

Stochastic processes in estimation theory
We describe the role of various stochastic processes, especially martingales and related concepts, in estimation theory. It is shown, in the simplest context, that in nonlinear estimation theory martingales play the same fundamental role as uncorrelation and white noise do in linear estimation.

Orthogonal functionals of independent-increment processes
In analogy with the Wiener-Ito theory of multiple integrals and orthogonal polynominals, a set of functionals of general square-integrable martingales is presented which, in the case of independent-increments processes, is orthogonal and complete in the sense that every L^{2} -functional of the independent-increment process can be represented as an infinite sum of these elementary functionals. The functionals are iterated integrals of the basic martingales, similar to the multiple iterated integrals of Ito and can be also thought of as being the analogs of the powers 1,x,x^{2}, \cdots of the usual calculus. The analogy is made even clearer by observing that expanding the Doleans-Dade formula for the exponential of the process in a Taylor-like series leads again to the above elementary functionals. A recursive formula for these functionals in terms of the basic martingale and of lower order functionals is given, and several connections with the theory of reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces associated with independent-increment processes are obtained.

A reliable broadcast protocol
Dynamic file assignment in a computer network
We present the models describing a problem of dynamic file allocation in a network of interacting computers and use dynamic programming to solve for the optimal strategies. The problem is treated for the case when the rates of the file requests are known in advance, as well as when only prior statistics is available for these rates. A separation theorem between estimation of the rates and the optimal control is proven, similar to Wonham's separation theorem for linear Gaussian models.

Optimal distributed routing for virtual line-switched data networks
An algorithm that provides minimum delay routing in a data communication network using virtual line-switching is presented. The algorithm uses distributed computation in the sense that the nodes of the network update their information in an orderly fashion based on messages received from their neighbors. Receipt of these messages also triggers the various steps of the update and rerouting, so that these operations are performed in appropriate sequencing. For stationary input requirements and fixed topology the algorithm reduces network delay at each step and provides loop-free routing in the network. The method also provides an algorithm for quasi-static routing, when the input flows are slowly changing.

DONE