Impact of COVID-19 on IoT Adoption in Healthcare, Smart Homes, Smart Buildings, Smart Cities, Transportation and Industrial IoT
COVID-19 has disrupted normal life and has enforced a substantial change in the policies, priorities and activities of individuals, organisations and governments. These changes are proving to be a catalyst for technology and innovation. In this paper, we discuss the pandemic’s potential impact on the adoption of the Internet of Things (IoT) in various broad sectors, namely healthcare, smart homes, smart buildings, smart cities, transportation and industrial IoT. Our perspective and forecast of this impact on IoT adoption is based on a thorough research literature review, a careful examination of reports from leading consulting firms and interactions with several industry experts. For each of these sectors, we also provide the details of notable IoT initiatives taken in the wake of COVID-19. We also highlight the challenges that need to be addressed and important research directions that will facilitate accelerated IoT adoption.

K-nearest neighbors on road networks: a journey in experimentation and in-memory implementation
A k nearest neighbor (kNN) query on road networks retrieves the k closest points of interest (POIs) by their network distances from a given location. Today, in the era of ubiquitous mobile computing, this is a highly pertinent query. While Euclidean distance has been used as a heuristic to search for the closest POIs by their road network distance, its efficacy has not been thoroughly investigated. The most recent methods have shown significant improvement in query performance. Earlier studies, which proposed disk-based indexes, were compared to the current state-of-the-art in main memory. However, recent studies have shown that main memory comparisons can be challenging and require careful adaptation. This paper presents an extensive experimental investigation in main memory to settle these and several other issues. We use efficient and fair memory-resident implementations of each method to reproduce past experiments and conduct additional comparisons for several overlooked evaluations. Notably we revisit a previously discarded technique (IER) showing that, through a simple improvement, it is often the best performing technique.

Probabilistic reverse nearest neighbor queries on uncertain data
Uncertain data are inherent in various important applications and reverse nearest neighbor (RNN) query is an important query type for many applications. While many different types of queries have been studied on uncertain data, there is no previous work on answering RNN queries on uncertain data. In this paper, we formalize probabilistic reverse nearest neighbor query that is to retrieve the objects from the uncertain data that have higher probability than a given threshold to be the RNN of an uncertain query object. We develop an efficient algorithm based on various novel pruning approaches that solves the probabilistic RNN queries on multidimensional uncertain data. The experimental results demonstrate that our algorithm is even more efficient than a sampling-based approximate algorithm for most of the cases and is highly scalable.

Continuous reverse k nearest neighbors queries in Euclidean space and in spatial networks
Influence zone: Efficiently processing reverse k nearest neighbors queries
Given a set of objects and a query q, a point p is called the reverse k nearest neighbor (RkNN) of q if q is one of the k closest objects of p. In this paper, we introduce the concept of influence zone which is the area such that every point inside this area is the RkNN of q and every point outside this area is not the RkNN. The influence zone has several applications in location based services, marketing and decision support systems. It can also be used to efficiently process RkNN queries. First, we present efficient algorithm to compute the influence zone. Then, based on the influence zone, we present efficient algorithms to process RkNN queries that significantly outperform existing best known techniques for both the snapshot and continuous RkNN queries. We also present a detailed theoretical analysis to analyse the area of the influence zone and IO costs of our RkNN processing algorithms. Our experiments demonstrate the accuracy of our theoretical analysis.

Continuous monitoring of distance-based range queries
Given a positive value r, a distance-based range query returns the objects that lie within the distance r of the query location. In this paper, we focus on the distance-based range queries that continuously change their locations in a euclidean space. We present an efficient and effective monitoring technique based on the concept of a safe zone. The safe zone of a query is the area with a property that while the query remains inside it, the results of the query remain unchanged. Hence, the query does not need to be reevaluated unless it leaves the safe zone. Our contributions are as follows: 1) We propose a technique based on powerful pruning rules and a unique access order which efficiently computes the safe zone and minimizes the I/O cost. 2) We theoretically determine and experimentally verify the expected distance a query moves before leaving the safe zone and, for majority of queries, the expected number of guard objects. 3) Our experiments demonstrate that the proposed approach is close to optimal and is an order of magnitude faster than a naïve algorithm. 4) We also extend our technique to monitor the queries in a road network. Our algorithm is up to two order of magnitude faster than a naïve algorithm.

Diversified spatial keyword search on road networks
With the increasing pervasiveness of the geo-positioning technologies, there is an enormous amount of spatio-textual objects available in many applications such as location based services and social networks. Consequently, various types of spatial keyword searches which explore both locations and textual descriptions of the objects have been intensively studied by the research communities and commercial organizations. In many important applications (e.g., location based services), the closeness of two spatial objects is measured by the road network distance. Moreover, the result diversification is becoming a common practice to enhance the quality of the search results. Motived by the above facts, in this paper we study the problem of diversified spatial keyword search on road networks which considers both the relevance and the spatial diversity of the results. An efficient signature-based inverted indexing technique is proposed to facilitate the spatial keyword query processing on road networks. Then we develop an efficient diversified spatial keyword search algorithm by taking advantage of spatial keyword pruning and diversity pruning techniques. Comprehensive experiments on real and synthetic data clearly demonstrate the efficiency of our methods.

Lazy updates: An efficient technique to continuously monitoring reverse knn
In this paper, we study the problem of continuous monitoring of reverse k nearest neighbor queries. Existing continuous reverse nearest neighbor monitoring techniques are sensitive towards objects and queries movement. For example, the results of a query are to be recomputed whenever the query changes its location. We present a framework for continuous reverse k nearest neighbor queries by assigning each object and query with a rectangular safe region such that the expensive recomputation is not required as long as the query and objects remain in their respective safe regions. This significantly improves the computation cost. As a by-product, our framework also reduces the communication cost in client-server architectures because an object does not report its location to the server unless it leaves its safe region or the server sends a location update request. We also conduct a rigid cost analysis to guide an effective selection of such rectangular safe regions. The extensive experiments demonstrate that our techniques outperform the existing techniques by an order of magnitude in terms of computation cost and communication cost.

Multi-guarded safe zone: An effective technique to monitor moving circular range queries
Given a positive value r, a circular range query returns the objects that lie within the distance r of the query location. In this paper, we study the circular range queries that continuously change their locations. We present an efficient and effective technique to monitor such moving range queries by utilising the concept of a safe zone. The safe zone of a query is the area with a property that while the query remains inside it, the results of the query remain unchanged. Hence, the query does not need to be re-evaluated unless it leaves the safe zone. The shape of the safe zone is defined by the so-called guard objects. The cost of checking whether a query lies in the safe zone takes k distance computations, where k is the number of the guard objects. Our contributions are as follows. 1) We propose a technique based on powerful pruning rules and a unique access order which efficiently computes the safe zone and minimizes the I/O cost. 2) To show the effectiveness of the safe zone, we theoretically evaluate the probability that a query leaves the safe zone within one time unit and the expected distance a query moves before it leaves the safe zone. Additionally, for the queries that have diameter of the safe zone less than its expected value multiplied by a constant, we also give an upper bound on the expected number of guard objects. This upper bound turns out to be a constant, that is, it does not depend either on the radius r of the query or the density of the objects. The theoretical analysis is verified by extensive experiments. 3) Our thorough experimental study demonstrates that our proposed approach is close to optimal and is an order of magnitude faster than a naïve algorithm.

Reverse k nearest neighbors query processing: experiments and analysis
Given a set of users, a set of facilities and a query facility q, a reverse k nearest neighbors (RkNN) query returns every user u for which the query is one of its k closest facilities. RkNN queries have been extensively studied under a variety of settings and many sophisticated algorithms have been proposed to answer these queries. However, the existing experimental studies suffer from a few limitations. For example, some studies estimate the I/O cost by charging a fixed penalty per I/O and we show that this may be misleading. Also, the existing studies either use an extremely small buffer or no buffer at all which puts some algorithms at serious disadvantage. We show that the performance of these algorithms is significantly improved even when a small buffer (containing 100 pages) is used. Finally, in each of the existing studies, the proposed algorithm is mainly compared only with its predecessor assuming that it was the best algorithm at the time which is not necessarily true as shown in our experimental study. Motivated by these limitations, we present a comprehensive experimental study that addresses these limitations and compares some of the most notable algorithms under a wide variety of settings. Furthermore, we also present a carefully developed filtering strategy that significantly improves TPL which is one of the most popular RkNN algorithms. Specifically, the optimized version is up to 20 times faster than the original version and reduces its I/O cost up to two times.

Efficiently processing snapshot and continuous reverse k nearest neighbors queries
Stochastic skyline operator
In many applications involving the multiple criteria optimal decision making, users may often want to make a personal trade-off among all optimal solutions. As a key feature, the skyline in a multi-dimensional space provides the minimum set of candidates for such purposes by removing all points not preferred by any (monotonic) utility/scoring functions; that is, the skyline removes all objects not preferred by any user no mater how their preferences vary. Driven by many applications with uncertain data, the probabilistic skyline model is proposed to retrieve uncertain objects based on skyline probabilities. Nevertheless, skyline probabilities cannot capture the preferences of monotonic utility functions. Motivated by this, in this paper we propose a novel skyline operator, namely stochastic skyline. In the light of the expected utility principle, stochastic skyline guarantees to provide the minimum set of candidates for the optimal solutions over all possible monotonic multiplicative utility functions. In contrast to the conventional skyline or the probabilistic skyline computation, we show that the problem of stochastic skyline is NP-complete with respect to the dimensionality. Novel and efficient algorithms are developed to efficiently compute stochastic skyline over multi-dimensional uncertain data, which run in polynomial time if the dimensionality is fixed. We also show, by theoretical analysis and experiments, that the size of stochastic skyline is quite similar to that of conventional skyline over certain data. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate that our techniques are efficient and scalable regarding both CPU and IO costs.

Indoor location-based services: challenges and opportunities
Billions of smartphone users throughout the world have come to expect, and rely upon, intuitive, reliable and accurate maps, directions, turn-by-turn navigation and other location-based services (LBSs). Those same users will over the next few years come to expect and then demand the same experience and services when they enter any large building or facility in the world whether that be a hospital, airport, shopping mall or university campus. Based on various reports and surveys, it is reported that indoor LBSs are expected to have an even bigger impact than outdoor LBSs mainly because indoor is where we spend our time and money, meet friends, and where business happens. Indoor LBSs have numerous applications including navigation, location based social networking, emergency services, location-based marketing, mobile games, asset tracking, and workforce location. In this paper, we describe the challenges that need to be solved in order to make indoor LBSs as ubiquitous as their outdoor counterpart and discuss the opportunity this provides.

NNVWC: An Efficient-Nearest Neighbors Approach Based on Various-Widths Clustering
The approximate k-NN search algorithms are well-known for their high concert in high dimensional data. The locality-sensitive hashing (LSH) method, that uses a number of hash functions, is one of the most fascinating hash-based approaches. The k-nearest neighbour approaches based Various-Widths Clustering (kNNVWC) has been widely used as a prevailing non-parametric technique in many scientific and engineering applications. However, this approach incurs a huge pre-processing and the querying cost. Hence, this issue has become an active explore field. The proposed system presents a novel k-NN based Partitioning Around Medoids (KNNPAM) clustering algorithm to powerfully find k-NNs for a query object from a given data set to minimize the extend beyond among clusters; and grouping the centers of the clusters into a tree-like index to effectively trim more clusters. Experimental results demonstrate that KNNPAM perform well in finding k-NNs for query objects compared to a number of k-NN search algorithms, mainly for a banking domain and real world data set with high dimensions, various distributions and large size. The problem of quickly finding the “exact” k-NN for a query object in a large and high dimensional data set using metric reserve functions that satisfy the triangle inequality property.KD-tree: To organization the data set in a balanced binary-tree, where the data set is recursively split into two parts along one axis .

SLICE: reviving regions-based pruning for reverse k nearest neighbors queries
Given a set of facilities and a set of users, a reverse k nearest neighbors (RkNN) query q returns every user for which the query facility is one of the k-closest facilities. Due to its importance, RkNN query has received significant research attention in the past few years. Almost all of the existing techniques adopt a pruning-and-verification framework. Regions-based pruning and half-space pruning are the two most notable pruning strategies. The half-space based approach prunes a larger area and is generally believed to be superior. Influenced by this perception, almost all existing RkNN algorithms utilize and improve the half-space pruning strategy. We observe the weaknesses and strengths of both strategies and discover that the regions-based pruning has certain strengths that have not been exploited in the past. Motivated by this, we present a new RkNN algorithm called SLICE that utilizes the strength of regions-based pruning and overcomes its limitations. Our extensive experimental study on synthetic and real data sets demonstrate that SLICE is significantly more efficient than the existing algorithms. We also provide a detailed theoretical analysis to analyze various aspects of our algorithm such as I/O cost, the unpruned area, and the cost of its verification phase etc. The experimental study validates our theoretical analysis.

Stochastic skylines
In many applications involving multiple criteria optimal decision making, users may often want to make a personal trade-off among all optimal solutions for selecting one object that fits best their personal needs. As a key feature, the skyline in a multidimensional space provides the minimum set of candidates for such purposes by removing all points not preferred by any (monotonic) utility/scoring functions; that is, the skyline removes all objects not preferred by any user no matter how their preferences vary. Driven by many recent applications with uncertain data, the probabilistic skyline model is proposed to retrieve uncertain objects based on skyline probabilities. Nevertheless, skyline probabilities cannot capture the preferences of monotonic utility functions. Motivated by this, in this article we propose a novel skyline operator, namely stochastic skylines. In the light of the expected utility principle, stochastic skylines guarantee to provide the minimum set of candidates to optimal solutions over a family of utility functions. We first propose the lskyline operator based on the lower orthant orders. lskyline guarantees to provide the minimum set of candidates to the optimal solutions for the family of monotonic multiplicative utility functions. While lskyline works very effectively for the family of multiplicative functions, it may miss optimal solutions for other utility /scoring functions (e.g., linear functions). To resolve this, we also propose a general stochastic skyline operator, gskyline, based on the usual orders. gskyline provides the minimum candidate set to the optimal solutions for all monotonic functions. For the first time regarding the existing literature, we investigate the complexities of determining a stochastic order between two uncertain objects whose probability distributions are described discretely. We firstly show that determining the lower orthant order is NP-complete with respect to the dimensionality; consequently the problem of computing lskyline is NP-complete. We also show an interesting result as follows. While the usual order involves more complicated geometric forms than the lower orthant order, the usual order may be determined in polynomial time regarding all the inputs, including the dimensionality; this implies that gskyline can be computed in polynomial time. A general framework is developed for efficiently and effectively retrieving lskyline and gskyline from a set of uncertain objects, respectively, together with efficient and effective filtering techniques. Novel and efficient verification algorithms are developed to efficiently compute lskyline over multidimensional uncertain data, which run in polynomial time if the dimensionality is fixed, and to efficiently compute gskyline in polynomial time regarding all inputs. We also show, by theoretical analysis and experiments, that the sizes of lskyline and gskyline are both quite similar to that of conventional skyline over certain data. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate that our techniques are efficient and scalable regarding both CPU and IO costs.

Clustering of Countries for COVID-19 Cases based on Disease Prevalence, Health Systems and Environmental Indicators

 The coronavirus has a high basic reproduction number (
 
 R
 0
 
 ) and has caused the global COVID-19 pandemic. Governments are implementing lockdowns that are leading to economic fallout in many countries. Policy makers can take better decisions if provided with the indicators connected with the disease spread. This study is aimed to cluster the countries using social, economic, health and environmental related metrics affecting the disease spread so as to implement the policies to control the widespread of disease. Thus, countries with similar factors can take proactive steps to fight against the pandemic. The data is acquired for 79 countries and 18 different feature variables (the factors that are associated with COVID-19 spread) are selected. Pearson Product Moment Correlation Analysis is performed between all the feature variables with cumulative death cases and cumulative confirmed cases individually to get an insight of relation of these factors with the spread of COVID-19. Unsupervised k-means algorithm is used and the feature set includes economic, environmental indicators and disease prevalence along with COVID-19 variables. The learning model is able to group the countries into 4 clusters on the basis of relation with all 18 feature variables. We also present an analysis of correlation between the selected feature variables, and COVID-19 confirmed cases and deaths. Prevalence of underlying diseases shows strong correlation with COVID-19 whereas environmental health indicators are weakly correlated with COVID-19.


Vip-tree: an effective index for indoor spatial queries
Due to the growing popularity of indoor location-based services, indoor data management has received significant research attention in the past few years. However, we observe that the existing indexing and query processing techniques for the indoor space do not fully exploit the properties of the indoor space. Consequently, they provide below par performance which makes them unsuitable for large indoor venues with high query workloads. In this paper, we propose two novel indexes called Indoor Partitioning Tree (IP-Tree) and Vivid IP-Tree (VIP-Tree) that are carefully designed by utilizing the properties of indoor venues. The proposed indexes are lightweight, have small pre-processing cost and provide near-optimal performance for shortest distance and shortest path queries. We also present efficient algorithms for other spatial queries such as k nearest neighbors queries and range queries. Our extensive experimental study on real and synthetic data sets demonstrates that our proposed indexes outperform the existing algorithms by several orders of magnitude.

A Unified Framework for Efficiently Processing Ranking Related Queries.
The computation of k-lower envelope is a classical problem and has been very well studied for main memory non-indexed data. In this paper, we study the problem from the database perspective and present the first algorithm which utilizes the presence of the index and achieves access optimality, i.e., it accesses a node of the index only if the correctness of the results cannot be guaranteed without accessing this node. We also demonstrate the applications of k-lower envelope in ranking systems. Let an object be called valuable if it is one of the top-k objects according to at least one linear scoring function. In this paper, we answer the following important questions that may be asked by different users: 1) I am not sure what scoring function I should use, therefore, return me the set of valuable objects so that I can select an object I like the most; 2) How can I modify the attributes (e.g., price) of my product such that it becomes a valuable object; 3) What are the preference functions for which a given object is among the top-k objects. These three questions are formalized and called k-snippet, k-depth contour and reverse top-k query, respectively. We propose a unified framework to solve these queries by utilizing k-lower envelope as a common foundation. Our main algorithm is access optimal for k-snippet and k-lower envelope computation. We also demonstrate its access optimality for the k-depth contour problem when k is smaller than the minimum number of objects in any leaf node of the index structure. Our algorithms outperform state-of-the-art algorithms by more than an order of magnitude in terms of both CPU and I/O cost.

A safe zone based approach for monitoring moving skyline queries
Given a set of criterions, an object o dominates another object ó if o is more preferable than ó according to every criterion. A skyline query returns every object that is not dominated by any other object. In this paper, we study the problem of continuously monitoring a moving skyline query where one of the criterions is the distance between the objects and the moving query. We propose a safe zone based approach to address the challenge of efficiently updating the results as the query moves. A safe zone is the area such that the results of a query remain unchanged as long as the query lies inside this area. Hence, the results are required to be updated only when the query leaves its safe zone. Although the main focus of this paper is to present the techniques for Euclidean distance metric, the proposed techniques are applicable to any metric distance (e.g., Manhattan distance, road network distance). We present several non-trivial optimizations and propose an efficient algorithm for safe zone construction. Our experiments demonstrate that the cost of our safe zone based approach is reasonably close to a lower bound cost and is three orders of magnitude lower than the cost of a naïve algorithm.

DONE