Bisimulation for labelled Markov processes
In this paper we introduce a new class of labelled transition systems-Labelled Markov Processes-and define bisimulation for them. Labelled Markov processes are probabilistic labelled transition systems where the state space is not necessarily discrete, it could be the reals, for example. We assume that it is a Polish space (the underlying topological space for a complete separable metric space). The mathematical theory of such systems is completely new from the point of view of the extant literature on probabilistic process algebra; of course, it uses classical ideas from measure theory and Markov process theory. The notion of bisimulation builds on the ideas of Larsen and Skou and of Joyal, Nielsen and Winskel. The main result that we prove is that a notion of bisimulation for Markov processes on Polish spaces, which extends the Larsen-Skou definition for discrete systems, is indeed an equivalence relation. This turns our to be a rather hard mathematical result which, as far as we know, embodies a new result in pure probability theory. This work heavily uses continuous mathematics which is becoming an important part of work on hybrid systems.

A computational model for metric spaces
Dynamical systems, measures, and fractals via domain theory
We introduce domain theory in the computation of dynamical systems, iterated function systems (fractals) and measures. For a discrete dynamical system (X, f), given by the action of a continuous map f: X → X on a metric space X, we study the extended dynamical systems (VX, Vf) and (UX, Uf) where V is the Vietoris functor and U is the upper space functor. In fact, from the point of view of computing the attractors of (X, f), it is natural to study the other two systems: A compact attractor of (X, f) is a fixed point of (VX, Vf) and a fixed point of (UX, Uf). We show that if (X, f) is chaotic, then so is (UX, Uf). When X is locally compact UX is a continuous bounded complete dcpo. If X is second countable as well, then UX will be ω-continuous and can be given an effective structure. We show how strange attractors, attractors of iterated function systems (fractals) and Julia sets are obtained effectively as fixed points of deterministic functions on UX or fixed points of non-deterministic functions on CUX where C is the convex (Plotkin) power domain. We also establish an interesting link between measure theory and domain theory. We show that the set, M(X), of Borel measures on X can be embedded in PUX, where P is the probabilistic power domain. This provides an effective way of obtaining measures on X. We then prove that the invariant measure of an hyperbolic iterated function system with probabilities can be obtained as the unique fixed point of an associated continuous function on PUX.

Domain theory and integration
We present a domain-theoretic framework for measure theory and integration of bounded read-valued functions with respect to bounded Borel measures on compact metric spaces. The set of normalised Borel measures of the metric space can be embedded into the maximal elements of the normalised probabilistic power domain of its upper space. Any bounded Borel measure on the compact metric space can then be obtained as the least upper bound of an /spl omega/-chain of linear combinations of point valuations (simple valuations) on the zipper space, thus providing a constructive setup for these measures. We use this setting to develop a theory of integration based on a new notion of integral which generalises and shares all the basic properties of the Riemann integral. The theory provides a new technique for computing the Lebesgue integral. It also leads to a new algorithm for integration over fractals of iterated function systems.<<ETX>>

Domains for computation in mathematics, physics and exact real arithmetic
Abstract We present a survey of the recent applications of continuous domains for providing simple computational models for classical spaces in mathematics including the real line, countably based locally compact spaces, complete separable metric spaces, separable Banach spaces and spaces of probability distributions. It is shown how these models have a logical and effective presentation and how they are used to give a computational framework in several areas in mathematics and physics. These include fractal geometry, where new results on existence and uniqueness of attractors and invariant distributions have been obtained, measure and integration theory, where a generalization of the Riemann theory of integration has been developed, and real arithmetic, where a feasible setting for exact computer arithmetic has been formulated. We give a number of algorithms for computation in the theory of iterated function systems with applications in statistical physics and in period doubling route to chaos; we also show how efficient algorithms have been obtained for computing elementary functions in exact real arithmetic.

Bisimulation for labelled Markov processes
In this paper we introduce a new class of labelled transition systems-Labelled Markov Processes-and define bisimulation for them. Labelled Markov processes are probabilistic labelled transition systems where the state space is not necessarily discrete, it could be the reals, for example. We assume that it is a Polish space (the underlying topological space for a complete separable metric space). The mathematical theory of such systems is completely new from the point of view of the extant literature on probabilistic process algebra; of course, it uses classical ideas from measure theory and Markov process theory. The notion of bisimulation builds on the ideas of Larsen and Skou and of Joyal, Nielsen and Winskel. The main result that we prove is that a notion of bisimulation for Markov processes on Polish spaces, which extends the Larsen-Skou definition for discrete systems, is indeed an equivalence relation. This turns our to be a rather hard mathematical result which, as far as we know, embodies a new result in pure probability theory. This work heavily uses continuous mathematics which is becoming an important part of work on hybrid systems.

A logical characterization of bisimulation for labeled Markov processes
This paper gives a logical characterization of probabilistic bisimulation for Markov processes. Bisimulation can be characterized by a very weak modal logic. The most striking feature is that one has no negation or any kind of negative proposition. Bisimulation can be characterized by several inequivalent logics; we report five in this paper and there are surely many more. We do not need any finite branching assumption yet there is no need of infinitely conjunction. We give an algorithm for deciding bisimilarity of finite state systems which constructs a formula that witnesses the failure of bisimulation.

Power domains and iterated function systems
We introduce the notion of weakly hyperbolic iterated function system (IFS) on a compact metric space, which generalises that of hyperbolic IFS. Based on a domain-theoretic model, which uses the Plotkin power domain and the probabilistic power domain respectively, we prove the existence and uniqueness of the attractor of a weakly hyperbolic IFS and the invariant measure of a weakly hyperbolic IFS with probabilities, extending the classic results of Hutchinson for hyperbolic IFSs in this more general setting. We also present finite algorithms to obtain discrete and digitised approximations to the attractor and the invariant measure, extending the corresponding algorithms for hyperbolic IFSs. We then prove the existence and uniqueness of the invariant distribution of a weakly hyperbolic recurrent IFS and obtain an algorithm to generate the invariant distribution on the digitised screen. The generalised Riemann integral is used to provide a formula for the expected value of almost everywhere continuous functions with respect to this distribution. For hyperbolic recurrent IFSs and Lipschitz maps, one can estimate the integral up to any threshold of accuracy.

A new representation for exact real numbers
A domain-theoretic approach to computability on the real line
Foundation of a computable solid modeling
Solid modelling and computational geometry are based on classical topology and geometry in which the basic predicates and operations, such as membership, subset inclusion, union and intersection, are not continuous and therefore not computable. But a sound computational framework for solids and geometry can only be built in a framework with computable predicates and operations. In practice, correctness of algorithms in computational geometry is usually proved using the unrealistic Real RAM machine model of computation, which allows comparison of real numbers, with the undesirable result that correct algorithms, when implemented, turn into unreliable programs. Here, we use a domain-theoretic approach to recursive analysis to develop the basis of an e3ective and realistic framework for solid modelling. This framework is equipped with a well de5ned and realistic notion of computability which re6ects the observable properties of real solids. The basic predicates and operations on solids are computable in this model which admits regular and non-regular sets and supports a design methodology for actual robust algorithms. Moreover, the model is able to capture the uncertainties of input data in actual CAD situations. c 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

Domain theory and differential calculus (functions of one variable)
A data-type for differential calculus is introduced, which is based on domain theory. We define the integral and also the derivative of a Scott continuous function on the domain of intervals, and present a domain-theoretic generalization of the fundamental theorem of calculus. We then construct a domain for differentiable real valued functions of a real variable. The set of classical C/sup 1/ functions, equipped with its C/sup 1/ norm, is embedded into the set of maximal elements of this domain, which is a countably based bounded complete continuous domain. This gives a data type for differential calculus. The construction can be generalized to C/sup k/ and C/sup /spl infin// functions. As an immediate application, we present a domain-theoretic generalization of Picard's theorem, which provides a data type for solving differential equations.

Semantics of exact real arithmetic
In this paper, we incorporate a representation of the non-negative extended real numbers based on the composition of linear fractional transformations with non-negative integer coefficients into the Programming Language for Computable Functions (PCF) with products. We present two models for the extended language and show that they are computationally adequate with respect to the operational semantics.

Integration in real PCF
Real PCF is an extension of the programming language PCF with a data type for real numbers. Although a Real PCF definable real number cannot be computed in finitely many steps, it is possible to compute an arbitrarily small rational interval containing the real number in a sufficiently large number of steps. Based on a domain-theoretic approach to integration, we show how to define integration in Real PCF. We propose two approaches to integration in Real PCF. One consists in adding integration as primitive. The other consists in adding a primitive for maximization of functions and then recursively defining integration from maximization. In both cases we have an adequacy theorem for the corresponding extension of Real PCF. Moreover based on previous work on Real PCF definability, we show that Real PCF extended with the maximization operator is universal, which implies that it is also fully abstract.

An extension result for continuous valuations
It is shown, by a simple and direct proof, that if a bounded valuation on a monotone convergence space is the supremum of a directed family of simple valuations, then it has a unique extension to a Borel measure. In particular, this holds for any directed complete partial order with the Scott topology. It follows that every bounded and continuous valuation on a continuous directed complete partial order can be extended uniquely to a Borel measure. The last result also holds for σ‐finite valuations, but fails for directed complete partial orders in general.

Semi-pullbacks and bisimulation in categories of Markov processes
We show that the category whose objects are families of Markov processes on Polish spaces, with a given transition kernel, and whose morphisms are transition probability preserving, surjective continuous maps has semi-pullbacks, i.e., for any pair of morphisms fi:Si→S (i = 1, 2), there exists an object V and morphisms πi:V→Si (i = 1, 2) such that f1∘π1 = f2∘π2. This property holds for various full subcategories, including that of families of Markov processes on locally compact second countable spaces, and in the larger category where the objects are families of Markov processes on analytic spaces and morphisms are transition probability preserving surjective Borel maps. It also follows that the category of probability measures on Polish spaces and measure-preserving continuous surjective maps has semi-pullbacks. A main consequence of our result is that probabilistic bisimulation for labelled Markov processes on all these categories, defined in terms of spans of morphisms, is an equivalence relation.

Computing with Real Numbers: I. The LFT Approach to Real Number Computation
We introduce, in Part I, a number representation suitable for exact real number computation, consisting of an exponent and a mantissa, which is an infinite stream of signed digits, based on the interval [-1,1]. Numerical operations are implemented in terms of linear fractional transformations (LFT's). We derive lower and upper bounds for the number of argument digits that are needed to obtain a desired number of result digits of a computation, which imply that the complexity of LFT application is that of multiplying n-bit integers. In Part II, we present an accessible account of a domain-theoretic approach to computational geometry and solid modelling which provides a data-type for designing robust geometric algorithms, illustrated here by the convex hull algorithm.

When Scott is weak on the top
We construct an approximating chain of simple valuations on the upper space of a compact metric space whose lub is a given probability measure on the metric space. We show that whenever a separable metric space is homeomorphic to a Gδ subset of an ω-continuous dcpo equipped with its Scott topology, the space of probability measures of the metric space equipped with the weak topology is homeomorphic with a subset of the maximal elements of the probabilistic power domain of the ω-continuous dcpo. Given an effective approximation of a probability measure by an increasing chain of normalised valuations on the upper space of a compact metric space, we show that the expected value of any Hölder continuous function on the space can be obtained up to any given accuracy. We present a novel application in computing integrals in dynamical systems. We obtain an algorithm to compute the expected value of any Hölder continuous function with respect to the unique invariant measure of the Feigenbaum map in the periodic doubling route to chaos.

Computing Delaunay Triangulation with Imprecise Input Data.
The key step in the construction of the Delaunay triangulation of a finite set of planar points is to establish correctly whether a given point of this set is inside or outside the circle determined by any other three points. We address the problem of formulating the in-circle test when the coordinates of the planar points are given only up to a given precision, which is usually the case in practice. By modelling imprecise points as rectangles, and using the idea of partial disc, we construct a reliable in-circle test that provides the best possible Delaunay triangulation with the imprecise input data given by rectangles.

A computable approach to measure and integration theory
DONE