Production of jet and diesel fuel range alkanes from waste hemicellulose-derived aqueous solutions
In this paper we report a novel four-step process for the production of jet and diesel fuel range alkanes from hemicellulose extracts derived from northeastern hardwood trees. The extract is representative of a byproduct that could be produced by wood-processing industries such as biomass boilers or pulp mills in the northeastern U.S. The hemicellulose extract tested in this study contained mainly xylose oligomers (21.2 g/l xylose after the acid hydrolysis) as well as 0.31 g/l glucose, 0.91 g/l arabinose, 0.2 g/l lactic acid, 2.39 g/l acetic acid, 0.31 g/l formic acid, and other minor products. The first step in this process is an acid-catalyzed biphasic dehydration to produce furfural in yields up to 87%. The furfural is extracted from the aqueous solution into a tetrahydrofuran (THF) phase which is then fed into an aldol condensation step. The furfural-acetone-furfural (F-Ac-F) dimer is produced in this step by reaction of furfural with acetone in yields up to 96% for the F-Ac-F dimer. The F-Ac-F dimer is then subject to a low-temperature hydrogenation to form the hydrogenated dimer (H-FAF) at 110–130 °C and 800 psig with a 5 wt% Ru/C catalyst. Finally the H-FAF undergoes hydrodeoxygenation to make jet and diesel fuel range alkanes, primarily C13 and C12, in yields up to 91%. The theoretical yield for this process is 0.61 kg of alkane per kg of dry xylose derived from the hemicellulose extract. Experimentally we were able to obtain 76% of the theoretical yield for the overall process. We estimate that jet and diesel fuel range alkanes can be produced from between $2.06/gal to $4.39/gal depending on the feed xylose concentration, the size of the biorefinery, and the overall yield. Sensitivity analysis shows that the prices of raw materials, the organic-to-aqueous mass ratio in the biphasic dehydration, and the feed xylose concentration in the hemicellulose extract significantly affect the product cost.

The pyrolysis chemistry of a β-O-4 type oligomeric lignin model compound
The pyrolysis behavior of a β-O-4 type oligomeric lignin model compound is studied at a temperature range from 250 °C to 550 °C. Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) indicates the model compound has three distinct thermal decompositions peaks when a slow temperature ramp is applied while only one decomposition peak is observed when a higher temperature ramp is used. The pyrolysis behavior of this model compound is similar to that of lignin prepared by enzymatic hydrolysis of Maplewood. 1H-NMR shows that the β-O-4 linkage thermally decomposes at a temperature between 250 °C and 350 °C with the formation of solid products at 350 °C. This solid product undergoes transformation to a polyaromatic from 350 °C to 550 °C. Around twenty five volatile compounds are quantified by pyroprobe-GC-MS with vanillin and 2-methoxy-4-methyl phenol being the most abundant monomeric products. A free radical reaction pathway is proposed to explain the product chemistry for pyrolysis of the lignin model compound. Char is most likely formed by random repolymerization of the radicals.

Production of renewable petroleum refinery diesel and jet fuel feedstocks from hemicellulose sugar streams
We demonstrate how hemicellulose-derived C5 sugars can be converted into a high-quality petroleum refinery feedstock by a four-step catalytic process. The substitute petroleum consists of normal, branched and cyclic alkanes up to 31 carbons in length and is similar in composition to feedstocks produced in a petroleum refinery today from crude oil. This process can be tuned to adjust the size of the liquid alkanes. In the first step furfural is produced from the acid-catalyzed dehydration of hemicellulose-derived sugar streams in a biphasic reactor. The second step is the aldol condensation of furfural with acetone in a THF solvent and using a NaOH catalyst to produce highly conjugated C13 compounds along with some oligomeric adducts formed through Michael addition reactions. These compounds are then hydrogenated with a Ru/Al2O3 catalyst forming both the fully hydrogenated form of the C13 oligomers and also forming larger oligomers by Diels–Alder reactions. The extent of Diels–Alder reactions can be tuned by changing the temperature and feed concentration, thereby adjusting the distribution of liquid alkanes that can be produced. The final step in this process is hydrodeoxygenation using a Pt/SiO2–Al2O3 bifunctional catalyst to produce the liquid alkanes. A simple biorefinery model has shown that about 55% of a furfural–acetone mixture (10 : 3 wt ratio) can be converted into cycle oils while also producing other refinery products such as gasoline and natural gas.

C C Bond Formation Reactions for Biomass‐Derived Molecules
There has been a tremendous interest in the utilization of biomass as feedstock to produce renewable fuels and chemicals. The major monomer building blocks of biomass are carbohydrates which are typically 5 or 6 carbons in length. Petroleumderived jet and diesel fuels are between 8 to 15 carbons in length. Therefore, to produce jet and diesel fuel from biomass, there must be a C!C bond formation from the biomass-derived molecules. However, direct C!C bond formation from carbohydrates (C5 and C6) is difficult due to the polyhydroxy functionalities on the carbohydrates. These polyhydroxy functionalities make the carbonyl group of the carbohydrates less reactive toward C!C bond formation because of its hemiacetal form. To overcome this problem, several research groups have converted C5 and C6 carbohydrates to aromatic aldehydes (Figure 1) such as furfural 1 and hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) 2

A new versatile strategy for C-aryl glycosides
A versatile strategy involving a sequential intermolecular enyne metathesis of C-alkynyl glycosides with ethylene, Diels-Alder, and aromatization reactions is successfully developed to provide a range of C-aryl glycosides. [reaction: see text]

Small molecule BODIPY dyes as non-fullerene acceptors in bulk heterojunction organic photovoltaics
A series of acceptor-donor-acceptor molecules containing terminal BODIPY moieties conjugated through the meso position were synthesized. Deep LUMO energy levels and good visible absorption led to their use as acceptors in bulk heterojunction solar cells. Inverted devices were fabricated, reaching efficiencies as high as 1.51%.

Inkjet-printed bifunctional carbon nanotubes for pH sensing
Application of an Enyne Metathesis/Diels–Alder Cycloaddition Sequence: A New Versatile Approach to the Syntheses of C‐Aryl Glycosides and Spiro‐C‐Aryl …
An efficient approach for the synthesis of a variety of C-aryl and spiro-C-aryl glycosides is described. This diversity-oriented strategy employed here relies on a sequential enyne metathesis to generate the 1,3-diene moiety and Diels-Alder reaction with different dienophiles followed by aromatisation. Whereas cross-enyne metathesis with ethylene gas is used to install the 1,3-diene moiety at the anomeric centre for the synthesis of C-aryl glycosides, an intramolecular enyne metathesis on the sugar enyne is performed to generate the 1,3-diene moiety for the synthesis of spiro-C-aryl glycosides. Efforts to extend this strategy to the synthesis of the core structure of natural C-aryl glycoside gilvocarcin are also described. A combination of both C-aryl and spiro-C-aryl glycosides in the same moiety to combine the features thereof has also been accomplished. A tandem enyne metathesis/Diels-Alder reaction/aromatisation has also been attempted to directly access the C-aryl glycosides in one pot albeit in low yield.

Protein-triggered supramolecular disassembly: insights based on variations in ligand location in amphiphilic dendrons
We use monodisperse dendrons that allow control over functional group presentation to investigate the influence of the location of a ligand on protein-induced disassembly and release of encapsulated small molecules. Based on both experiments and molecular dynamics simulations, we demonstrate that ligand location greatly influences release of guest molecules from the dendron-based supramolecular assembly. We show that a ligand moiety grafted to the dendron periphery is more accessible for the target protein in aqueous solution. On the other hand, the ligand moiety placed at the focal point or at the intermediate layer within the dendritic scaffold is less accessible, since it is surrounded by an environment rich in PEG chains, which hinders binding and even influences nonspecific interactions. We also demonstrate that the specific binding between one ligand and the target protein can destabilize the dendritic assembly. Furthermore, if more ligands are available, multivalent interactions are also possible with extravidin, which speed up disassembly and trigger the release of hydrophobic guests.

Temperature-sensitive transitions below LCST in amphiphilic dendritic assemblies: host–guest implications
Oligo(ethylene glycol)-decorated supramolecular assemblies have been of great interest due to their charge-neutral character and thus their propensity to avoid nonspecific interactions. These systems are known to exhibit a macroscopic temperature-sensitive transition, where the assembly phase-separates from the aqueous phase at higher temperatures. While this so-called lower critical solution temperature (LCST) behavior has been well-studied, there have been no studies on the fate of these supramolecular assemblies below this transition temperature. The work here brings to light the presence of a second, sub-LCST transition, observed well below the LCST of oligo(ethylene glycol) (OEG)-based dendrons, where the host-guest properties of the assembly are significantly altered. This sub-LCST transition is accompanied by changes in the guest encapsulation stability and dynamics of host exchange.

Effect of induction on the dispersion of semiconducting and metallic single-walled carbon nanotubes using conjugated polymers
Despite significant advances in single-walled carbon nanotube (SWNT) synthesis and purification strategies, the separation of metallic and semiconducting SWNTs on a large scale remains a barrier to the realization of many commercial applications. Selective extraction of specific SWNT types by wrapping and dispersion with conjugated polymers has been found effective for semiconducting SWNTs, but structural parameters that dictate selectivity are poorly understood. Here, we report nanotube dispersions with two structurally similar conjugated copolymers, both being poly(fluorene-co-phenylene) derivatives, having comparable degrees of polymerization but differing in the extent of electron donation from functional groups on the phenylene comonomers. It is found that copolymers decorated with electron donating methoxy functionalities lead to predominant dispersion of semiconducting SWNTs, while copolymers decorated with electron withdrawing nitro functionalities bias the dispersion toward metallic SWNTs. Differ...

The effect of molecular weight on the separation of semiconducting single‐walled carbon nanotubes using poly (2, 7‐carbazole) s
The use of selective interactions between conjugated polymers and single-walled carbon nanotubes has emerged as a promising method for the separation of nanotubes by electronic type. Although much attention has been devoted to investigating polyfluorenes and their ability to disperse semiconducting carbon nanotubes under specific conditions, other polymer families, such as poly(2,7-carbazole)s, have been relatively overlooked. Poly(2,7-carbazole)s have been shown to also preferentially interact with semiconducting carbon nanotubes, however a detailed investigation of polymer parameters, such as molecular weight, has not been performed. We have prepared seven different molecular weights of a poly(2,7-carbazole), from short chain oligomers to high molecular weight polymers, and have investigated their effectiveness at dispersing semiconducting single-walled carbon nanotubes. Although all polymer chain lengths were able to efficiently exfoliate carbon nanotube bundles using a mild dispersion protocol, only polymers above a certain threshold molecular weight (Mn ∼ 27 kDa) were found to exhibit complete selectivity for semiconducting nanotubes, with no observable signals from metallic species. Additionally, we found the quality of separation to be strongly dependent on the ratio of polymer to carbon nanotube. Contrary to previous reports, we have found that an excess of poly(2,7-carbazole) leads to incomplete removal of metallic carbon nanotubes. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J. Polym. Sci., Part A: Polym. Chem. 2015, 53, 2510–2516

A radical cyclization approach to the formal total syntheses of platencin
Two different strategies leading to formal total syntheses of platencin are described. The first strategy involving Claisen rearrangement and radical cyclization provides a rapid access to the core structure of platencin, and also use minimum protective-group operations. The second strategy, a protecting group-free route, utilizes a 6-exo-trig radical cyclization and aldol condensation as key steps leading to the formal synthesis of platencin.

GP vanWalsum, H. Pendse, GW Huber
Selective dispersion of single-walled carbon nanotubes with electron-rich fluorene-based copolymers
We herein report the design and synthesis of novel fluorene-based π-conjugated copolymers containing electron-donating dithiafulvene (DTF) and π-extended tetrathiafulvalene (exTTF) repeat units through Suzuki coupling polymerization. The resulting copolymers showed a comparable degree of polymerization and retained the redox activity originating from the DTF and exTTF building blocks. Theoretical modeling studies predicted that these electron-rich copolymers could wrap around individual single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) via intimate π-stacking, while experimental results confirmed that the copolymers formed stable polymer–SWNT supramolecular complexes in organic solvents with high selectivity for semiconducting SWNTs. Various spectroscopic and microscopic analyses were conducted to show that the electronic nature of conjugated polymer backbones plays an important role in tuning the binding preference of the polymers for particular types of SWNTs, offering an efficient and selective non-covalent method to sort SWNTs from as-produced mixtures.

Synthesis of a Novel Taxa‐Oxa‐Sugar Hybrid Core Structure by Tandem Cross‐Enyne Metathesis/IMDA
This paper describes our design and efforts in synthesizing new scaffolds with taxol-eleutherobin hybrid core structures and a taxol-sugar hybrid. The synthesis of taxol-eleutherobin hybrids involved the synthesis of the A-ring fragment from carvone and the C-ring fragment from either D-mannose or D-glucose. The Shapiro reaction was used as the key reaction to couple the A- and C-ring fragments of these hybrid structures. Unfortunately, another key reaction (RCM) failed to form the B-ring and essentially the core unit. However, a tandem enyne cross-metathesis/intramolecular Diels–Alder strategy was utilized for the synthesis of a taxa-oxa-sugar hybrid.

Zwitterionic moieties from the huisgen reaction: A case study with amphiphilic dendritic assemblies
Supramolecular nano-assemblies that reduce nonspecific interactions with biological macromolecules, such as proteins, are of great importance for various biological applications. Recently, zwitterionic materials have been shown to reduce nonspecific interactions with biomolecules, owing both to their charge neutrality and their ability to form a strong hydration layer around zwitterions via electrostatic interactions. Here, new triazole-based zwitterionic moieties are presented that are incorporated as the hydrophilic functionalities in facially amphiphilic dendrons. The amphiphilic zwitterionic dendrons spontaneously self-assemble in aqueous solutions forming micelle-type aggregates, which were confirmed by DLS, TEM, and fluorescence techniques. The structural and functional characteristics of the zwitterionic dendrons are also compared with the corresponding charge-neutral PEG-based dendrons and anionic carboxylate-based dendrons. Surface-charge measurements, temperature sensitivity and evaluation of interactions of these assemblies with proteins form the bases for these comparisons.

and Alex Adronov
The synthesis of novel dendrimers functionalized with laser dyes both at the periphery and at the core, along with all relevant model compounds necessary for accurate photophysical studies, is described. The utilized synthetic strategy involves a modular approach in which a variety of peripheral and core moieties can be placed on a dendritic structure bearing electrophilic peripheral groups and a nucleophilic core. Specifically, the target macromolecules required functionalization with the laser dyes coumarin 2 (periphery) and coumarin 343 (core) due to the possibility of energy transfer from the former to the latter dye. In addition, the preparation of a novel, highly soluble and reactive hypermonomer utilized in the rapid and efficient synthesis of high-generation dye-labeled dendrimers and model compounds is outlined.

Synthetic Studies on C-Aryl Glycosides, Platencin and Taxa-Sugar Hybrids
DONE