A proposed model for data warehouse ETL processes
Heart disease identification from patients’ social posts, machine learning solution on Spark
A mobile health monitoring-and-treatment system based on integration of the SSN sensor ontology and the HL7 FHIR standard
Data-driven robust taxi dispatch under demand uncertainties
In modern taxi networks, large amounts of taxi occupancy status and location data are collected from networked in-vehicle sensors in realtime. They provide knowledge of system models on passenger demand and mobility patterns for efficient taxi dispatch and coordination strategies. Such approaches face new challenges: how to deal with uncertainties of predicted customer demand while fulfilling the system’s performance requirements, including minimizing taxis’ total idle mileage and maintaining service fairness across the whole city; how to formulate a computationally tractable problem. To address this problem, we develop a data-driven robust taxi dispatch framework to consider spatial-temporally correlated demand uncertainties. The robust vehicle dispatch problem we formulate is concave in the uncertain demand and convex in the decision variables. Uncertainty sets of random demand vectors are constructed from data based on theories in hypothesis testing, and provide a desired probabilistic guarantee level for the performance of robust taxi dispatch solutions. We prove equivalent computationally tractable forms of the robust dispatch problem using the minimax theorem and strong duality. Evaluations on four years of taxi trip data for New York City show that by selecting a probabilistic guarantee level at 75%, the average demand–supply ratio error is reduced by 31.7%, and the average total idle driving distance is reduced by 10.13% or about 20 million miles annually, compared with nonrobust dispatch solutions.

Data sets, modeling, and decision making in smart cities: A survey
Cities are deploying tens of thousands of sensors and actuators and developing a large array of smart services. The smart services use sophisticated models and decision-making policies supported by Cyber Physical Systems and Internet of Things technologies. The increasing number of sensors collects a large amount of city data across multiple domains. The collected data have great potential value, but has not yet been fully exploited. This survey focuses on the domains of transportation, environment, emergency and public safety, energy, and social sensing. This article carefully reviews both the data sets being collected across 14 smart cities and the state-of-the-art work in modeling and decision making methodologies. The article also points out the characteristics, challenges faced today, and those challenges that will be exacerbated in the future. Key data issues addressed include heterogeneity, interdisciplinary, integrity, completeness, real-timeliness, and interdependencies. Key decision making issues include safety and service conflicts, security, uncertainty, humans in the loop, and privacy.

Data-driven distributionally robust vehicle balancing using dynamic region partitions
With the transformation to smarter cities and the development of technologies, a large amount of data is collected from sensors in real-time. This paradigm provides opportunities for improving transportation systems' performance by allocating vehicles towards mobility predicted demand proactively. However, how to deal with uncertainties in demand probability distribution for improving the average system performance is still a challenging and unsolved task. Considering this problem, in this work, we develop a data-driven distributionally robust vehicle balancing method to minimize the worst-case expected cost. We design an efficient algorithm for constructing uncertainty sets of random demand probability distributions, and leverage a quad-tree dynamic region partition method for better capturing the dynamic spatial-temporal properties of the uncertain demand. We then prove equivalent computationally tractable form for numerically solving the distributionally robust problem. We evaluate the performance of the data-driven vehicle balancing framework based on four years of taxi trip data for New York City. We show that the average total idle driving distance is reduced by 30% with the distributionally robust vehicle balancing method using quad-tree dynamic region partition method, compared with vehicle balancing solutions based on static region partitions without considering demand uncertainties. This is about 60 million miles or 8 million dollars cost reduction annually in NYC.

Predictive Tree: An Efficient Index for Predictive Queries On Road Networks
Predictive queries on moving objects offer an important category of location-aware services based on the objects' expected future locations. A wide range of applications utilize this type of services, e.g., traffic management systems, location-based advertising, and ride sharing systems. This paper proposes a novel index structure, named Predictive tree (P-tree), for processing predictive queries against moving objects on road networks. The predictive tree: (1) provides a generic infrastructure for answering the common types of predictive queries including predictive point, range, KNN, and aggregate queries, (2) updates the probabilistic prediction of the object's future locations dynamically and incrementally as the object moves around on the road network, and (3) provides an extensible mechanism to customize the probability assignments of the object's expected future locations, with the help of user defined functions. The proposed index enables the evaluation of predictive queries in the absence of the objects' historical trajectories. Based solely on the connectivity of the road network graph and assuming that the object follows the shortest route to destination, the predictive tree determines the reachable nodes of a moving object within a specified time window T in the future. The predictive tree prunes the space around each moving object in order to reduce computation, and increase system efficiency. Tunable threshold parameters control the behavior of the predictive trees by trading the maximum prediction time and the details of the reported results on one side for the computation and memory overheads on the other side. The predictive tree is integrated in the context of the iRoad system in two different query processing modes, namely, the precomputed query result mode, and the on-demand query result mode. Extensive experimental results based on large scale real and synthetic datasets confirm that the predictive tree achieves better accuracy compared to the existing related work, and scales up to support a large number of moving objects and heavy predictive query workloads.

Panda: A predictive spatio-temporal query processor
This paper presents the Panda system for efficient support of a wide variety of predictive spatio-temporal queries that are widely used in several applications including traffic management, location-based advertising, and ride sharing. Unlike previous attempts in supporting predictive queries, Panda targets long-term query prediction as it relies on adapting a well-designed long-term prediction function to: (a) scale up to large number of moving objects, and (b) support large number of predictive queries. As a means of scalability, Panda smartly precomputes parts of the most frequent incoming predictive queries, which significantly reduces the query response time. Panda employs a tunable threshold that achieves a trade-off between query response time and the maintenance cost of precomptued answers. Experimental results, based on large data sets, show that Panda is scalable, efficient, and as accurate as its underlying prediction function.

Predictive spatio-temporal queries: a comprehensive survey and future directions
Predictive queries over spatio-temporal data proved to be vital in many location-based services including traffic management, ride sharing, and advertising. In the last few years, one of the most exciting work on spatio-temporal data management is about predictive queries. In this paper, we review the current research trends and present their related applications in the field of predictive spatio-temporal queries processing. Then, we discuss some basic challenges arising from new opportunities and open problems. The goal of this paper is to catch the interesting areas and future work under the umbrella of predictive queries over spatio-temporal data.

A survey of AI-based anomaly detection in IoT and sensor networks
Machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL), in particular, are common tools for anomaly detection (AD). With the rapid increase in the number of Internet-connected devices, the growing desire for Internet of Things (IoT) devices in the home, on our person, and in our vehicles, and the transition to smart infrastructure and the Industrial IoT (IIoT), anomaly detection in these devices is critical. This paper is a survey of anomaly detection in sensor networks/the IoT. This paper defines what an anomaly is and surveys multiple sources based on those definitions. The goal of this survey was to highlight how anomaly detection is being performed on the Internet of Things and sensor networks, identify anomaly detection approaches, and outlines gaps in the research in this domain.

Smart personalized routing for smart cities
In smart cities, commuters have the opportunities for smart routing that may enable selecting a route with less car accidents, or one that is more scenic, or perhaps a straight and flat route. Such smart personalization requires a data management framework that goes beyond a static road network graph. This paper introduces PreGo, a novel system developed to provide real time personalized routing. The recommended routes by PreGo are smart and personalized in the sense of being (1) adjustable to individual users preferences, (2) subjective to the trip start time, and (3) sensitive to changes of the road conditions. Extensive experimental evaluation using real and synthetic data demonstrates the efficiency of the PreGo system.

Clinical decision support system for liver fibrosis prediction in hepatitis patients: A case comparison of two soft computing techniques
Diagnosis of deadly diseases, such as liver fibrosis, is very important. Clinical decision support systems (CDSSs) based on patient’s historical medical data and accurate AI techniques can aid physicians in their decision-making process. The task of arriving at an accurate and timely diagnosis decision is always complex because of the dynamic, vagueness, and uncertainty associated with this disease. Fuzzy logic can perfectly handle these issues. In recent years, two of the most interesting techniques are a fuzzy analytical hierarchy process (FAHP) and an adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system (ANFIS). The FAHP is popular for dealing with uncertainty in multi-criteria decision-making, and the ANFIS is popular in learning fuzzy inference system from data based on artificial neural networks. To the best of our knowledge, these two methods have not been used to model CDSSs in fibrosis stage detection domain. In this paper, we develop a CDSS based on a case comparison of the effectiveness of the FAHP and the ANFIS in the medical diagnosis of the fibrosis disease. We carefully design and implement two frameworks based on these two techniques. Diagnostic real data of 119 cases infected by chronic viral hepatitis C from the Liver Institute at Mansoura University in Egypt are used to train and test both the FAHP and ANFIS. Criteria and subcriteria weights are based on opinions of two domain experts. The ANFIS model is designed using trial and error based on the analysis of various experiments. Results are later compared with the diagnostic conclusions of medical expert and other three medical and fuzzy techniques. The comparison results show that these two techniques can successfully be employed in designing a diagnostic CDSS system for fibrosis diagnosis. The two techniques achieve a classification accuracy of 93.3%. The results confirm the efficiency and effectiveness of both methods. Therefore, both the FAHP and ANFIS are viable approaches in modeling CDSS for diagnosis of a liver fibrosis stage.

Crisis management art from the risks to the control: a review of methods and directions
A crisis is an exceptional event that causes damage and negative impacts on organizations. For this reason, crisis management is considered as a significant action needed to follow crisis causes and consequences for preventing or avoiding these exceptional events from occurring again. Studies have devoted their efforts to proposing methods, techniques, and approaches in the crisis management direction. As a result, it is critical to provide a consolidated study that has an integrated view of proposed crisis management methods, crisis impacts, and effective response strategies. For this purpose, this paper first highlights the proposed techniques used in crisis management and presents the main objective behind each technique. Second, the risks and impacts resulting from a crisis are highlighted. Finally, crisis response strategies are discussed. The major contribution of this study is it can guide researchers to define research gaps or new directions in crisis management and choose the proper techniques that cope with their research problems or help them discover new research problems.

iRoad: a framework for scalable predictive query processing on road networks
This demo presents the iRoad framework for evaluating predictive queries on moving objects for road networks. The main promise of the iRoad system is to support a variety of common predictive queries including predictive point query, predictive range query, predictive KNN query, and predictive aggregate query. The iRoad framework is equipped with a novel data structure, named reachability tree, employed to determine the reachable nodes for a moving object within a specified future time Τ. In fact, the reachability tree prunes the space around each object in order to significantly reduce the computation time. So, iRoad is able to scale up to handle real road networks with millions of nodes, and it can process heavy workloads on large numbers of moving objects. During the demo, audience will be able to interact with iRoad through a well designed Graphical User Interface to issue different types of predictive queries on a real road network, to obtain the predictive heatmap of the area of interest, to follow the creation and the dynamic update of the reachability tree around a specific moving object, and finally to examine the system efficiency and scalability.

Data-driven distributionally robust optimization for vehicle balancing of mobility-on-demand systems
With the transformation to smarter cities and the development of technologies, a large amount of data is collected from sensors in real time. Services provided by ride-sharing systems such as taxis, mobility-on-demand autonomous vehicles, and bike sharing systems are popular. This paradigm provides opportunities for improving transportation systems’ performance by allocating ride-sharing vehicles toward predicted demand proactively. However, how to deal with uncertainties in the predicted demand probability distribution for improving the average system performance is still a challenging and unsolved task. Considering this problem, in this work, we develop a data-driven distributionally robust vehicle balancing method to minimize the worst-case expected cost. We design efficient algorithms for constructing uncertainty sets of demand probability distributions for different prediction methods and leverage a quad-tree dynamic region partition method for better capturing the dynamic spatial-temporal properties of the uncertain demand. We then derive an equivalent computationally tractable form for numerically solving the distributionally robust problem. We evaluate the performance of the data-driven vehicle balancing algorithm under different demand prediction and region partition methods based on four years of taxi trip data for New York City (NYC). We show that the average total idle driving distance is reduced by 30% with the distributionally robust vehicle balancing method using quad-tree dynamic region partitions, compared with vehicle balancing methods based on static region partitions without considering demand uncertainties. This is about a 60-million-mile or a 8-million-dollar cost reduction annually in NYC.

Routing service with real world severe weather
Traditional routing services aim to save driving time by recommending the shortest path, in terms of distance or time, to travel from a start location to a given destination. However, these methods are relatively static and to a certain extent rely on traffic patterns under relatively normal conditions to calculate and recommend an appropriate route. As such, they do not necessarily translate effectively during severe weather events such as tornadoes. In these scenarios, the guiding principal is not, optimize for travel time, but rather, optimize for survivability of the event, i.e., can we recommend an evacuation route to those users inside the hazardous areas. In this demo, we present a framework for routing services for evacuating and avoiding real world severe weather threats that is able to: (1) Identify the users inside the dangerous region of a severe weather event (2) Recommend an evacuation route to guide the users out to a safe destination or shelter (3) Assure the recommended route to be one of the shortest paths after excluding the risky area (4) Maintain the flow of traffic by normalizing the evacuation on the possible safe routes. During the demo, attendees will be able to use the system interactively through its graphical user interface within a number of different scenarios. They will be able to locate the severe weather events on real time basis in any area in USA and examine detailed information about each event, to issue an evacuation query from an existing dangerous area by identifying a destination location and receiving the routing direction on their mobile devices, to issue an avoidance routing query to ask for a shortest path that avoids the dangerous region, to have an inside look into the internal system components and finally, to evaluate the overall system performance.

A multi-objective optimization method for hospital admission problem—A case study on COVID-19 patients
The wide spread of Covid-19 has led to infecting a huge number of patients, simultaneously. This resulted in a massive number of requests for medical care, at the same time. During the first wave of Covid-19, many people were not able to get admitted to appropriate hospitals because of the immense number of patients. Admitting patients to suitable hospitals can decrease the in-bed time of patients, which can lead to saving many lives. Also, optimizing the admission process can minimize the waiting time for medical care, which can save the lives of severe cases. The admission process needs to consider two main criteria: the admission time and the readiness of the hospital that will accept the patients. These two objectives convert the admission problem into a Multi-Objective Problem (MOP). Pareto Optimization (PO) is a common multi-objective optimization method that has been applied to different MOPs and showed its ability to solve them. In this paper, a PO-based algorithm is proposed to deal with admitting Covid-19 patients to hospitals. The method uses PO to vary among hospitals to choose the most suitable hospital for the patient with the least admission time. The method also considers patients with severe cases by admitting them to hospitals with the least admission time regardless of their readiness. The method has been tested over a real-life dataset that consisted of 254 patients obtained from King Faisal specialist hospital in Saudi Arabia. The method was compared with the lexicographic multi-objective optimization method regarding admission time and accuracy. The proposed method showed its superiority over the lexicographic method regarding the two criteria, which makes it a good candidate for real-life admission systems.

A learning platform for SQL injection
We present a web application system where users can learn about and practice SQL injection attacks. Our system is designed for students in a university level database or computer security class, and is aimed towards students familiar with SQL but with little experience in web security. Our platform currently contains 12 levels, each of which demonstrates a SQL vulnerability that the user must exploit. For each level, we explain the goal of the challenge, and also provide detailed solutions. Our system provides advantages over other methods of teaching SQL injection because it is hands-on, the challenges provide a greater scope of vulnerability coverage, and is easily extensible, allowing instructors to add their own SQL injection problems for their students.

TraceAll: A Real-Time Processing for Contact Tracing Using Indoor Trajectories
The rapid spread of infectious diseases is a major public health problem. Recent developments in fighting these diseases have heightened the need for a contact tracing process. Contact tracing can be considered an ideal method for controlling the transmission of infectious diseases. The result of the contact tracing process is performing diagnostic tests, treating for suspected cases or self-isolation, and then treating for infected persons; this eventually results in limiting the spread of diseases. This paper proposes a technique named TraceAll that traces all contacts exposed to the infected patient and produces a list of these contacts to be considered potentially infected patients. Initially, it considers the infected patient as the querying user and starts to fetch the contacts exposed to him. Secondly, it obtains all the trajectories that belong to the objects moved nearby the querying user. Next, it investigates these trajectories by considering the social distance and exposure period to identify if these objects have become infected or not. The experimental evaluation of the proposed technique with real data sets illustrates the effectiveness of this solution. Comparative analysis experiments confirm that TraceAll outperforms baseline methods by 40% regarding the efficiency of answering contact tracing queries.

CrowdPath: a framework for next generation routing services using volunteered geographic information
DONE