Human-Centered Visualization Environments: GI-Dagstuhl Research Seminar, Dagstuhl Castle, Germany, March 5-8, 2006, Revised Papers
A functional framework for web-based information visualization systems
The accelerating evolution of information visualization research in the last few years has led to several specific system implementations. The obvious drawbacks of this development are highly dependent software systems, which are only available for a restricted number of users. Today, due to the remarkable advances in hardware and software technologies, not only very expensive graphics workstations, but also low-cost PCs are capable of running computational demanding visualization systems. Furthermore, the rapid development of the medium World Wide Web along with state-of-the-art Internet programming techniques has led to a trend toward more generally usable visualization systems. In this paper, we propose a functional developer's framework for general Web-based visualization systems which makes intelligent use of application specific software and hardware components on the server side, as well as Java's benefits on the client side. To demonstrate the framework's abilities, we have applied it to two practical visualization tasks and report on our experience concerning practicability and pitfalls.

Human-computer interaction: Introduction and overview
The objective of this special introductory seminar is to provide newcomers to Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) with an introduction and overview of the field. The material will begin with a brief history of the field, followed by presentation and discussion of how good application development methods pull on the interdisciplinary technologies of HCI. The topics will include the psychology of human-computer interaction, psychologically-based design methods and tools, user interface media and tools, and introduction to user interface architecture.

Virtual try-on: Topics in realistic, individualized dressing in virtual reality
In the course of the project Virtual Try-On new VR technologies have been developed, which form the basis for a realistic, three dimensional, (real-time) simulation and visualization of individualized garments put on by virtual counterparts of real customers. To provide this cloning and dressing of people in VR, a complete process chain is being build up starting with the touch-less 3-dimensional scanning of the human body up to a photo-realistic 3-dimensional presentation of the virtual customer dressed in the chosen pieces of clothing. The emerging platform for interactive selection and configuration of virtual garments, the "virtual shop", will be accessible in real fashion boutiques as well as over the internet, thereby supplementing the conventional distribution channels.

Detecting Insight and Emotion in Visualization Applications with a Commercial EEG Headset.
Insight represents a special element of knowledge building. From the beginning of their lives, humans experience moments of insight in which a certain idea or solution becomes as clear to them as never before. Especially in the field of visual representations, insight has the potential to be at the core of comprehension and pattern recognition. Still, one problem is that this moment of clarity is highly unpredictable and complex in nature, and many scientists have investigated different aspects of its generation process in the hope of capturing the essence of this eureka (Greek, for “I have found”) moment. In this paper, we look at insight from the spectrum of information visualization. In particular, we inspect the possible correlation between epiphanies and emotional responses subjects experience when having an insight. In order to check the existence of such a connection, we employ a set of initial tests involving the EPOC mobile electroencephalographic (EEG) headset for detecting emotional responses generated by insights. The insights are generated by open-ended tasks that take the form of visual riddles and visualization applications. Our results suggest that there is a strong connection between insight and emotions like frustration and excitement. Moreover, measuring emotional responses via EEG during an insight-related problem solving results in non-intrusive, nearly automatic detection of the major Aha! moments the user experiences. We argue that this indirect detection of insights opens the door for the objective evaluation and comparison of various visualizations techniques.

EEG-based measurement of subjective parameters in evaluations
A general introduction to graph visualization techniques
Generally, a graph is an abstract data type used to represent relations among a given set of data entities. Graphs are used in numerous applications within the field of information visualization, such as VLSI (circuit schematics), state-transition diagrams, and social networks. The size and complexity of graphs easily reach dimensions at which the task of exploring and navigating gets crucial. Moreover, additional requirements have to be met in order to provide proper visualizations. In this context, many techniques already have been introduced. This survey aims to provide an introduction on graph visualization techniques helping the reader to gain a first insight into the most fundamental techniques. Furthermore, a brief introduction about navigation and interaction tools is provided.

Visualization and evolution of software architectures
Software systems are an integral component of our everyday life as we find them in tools and embedded in equipment all around us. In order to ensure smooth, predictable, and accurate operation of these systems, it is crucial to produce and maintain systems that are highly reliable. A well-designed and well-maintained architecture goes a long way in achieving this goal. However, due to the intangible and often complex nature of software architecture, this task can be quite complicated. The field of software architecture visualization aims to ease this task by providing tools and techniques to examine the hierarchy, relationship, evolution, and quality of architecture components. In this paper, we present a discourse on the state of the art of software architecture visualization techniques. Further, we highlight the importance of developing solutions tailored to meet the needs and requirements of the stakeholders involved in the analysis process.

Flexible gesture recognition for immersive virtual environments
With powerful graphics hardware becoming affordable for everyone, there is an increasing tendency towards a new generation of user interfaces, with the focus shifting from traditional two-dimensional desktops to three-dimensional virtual environments. Therefore, there is a growing need for applicable immersive interaction metaphors to manipulate these environments. In our paper we propose a gesture recognition engine using an inexpensive data glove with integrated 6 DOF tracking. Despite of noisy input data from the glove, we are able to achieve reliable and flexible gesture recognition. New gestures can be trained easily and existing gestures can be individually adapted for different users

Tiled++: An enhanced tiled hi-res display wall
In recent years, high-resolution displays have become increasingly important to decision makers and scientists because large screens combined with a high pixel count facilitate content rich, simultaneous display of computer-generated imagery and high-definition video data from multiple sources. Tiled displays are attractive due to their extended screen real estate, scalability, and low cost. LCD panels are usually preferred over projectors because of their superior resolution. One of the drawbacks of LCD-based tiled displays is the fact that users sometimes get distracted by the screens' bezels, which cause discontinuities in rendered images, animations, or videos. Most conventional solutions either ignore the bezels and display all pixels, causing objects to become distorted, or eliminate the pixels that would normally fall under the bezels, causing pixels to be missing in the display of static images. In animations, the missing pixels will eventually reappear when the object moves, providing an experience that is similar to looking through a French window. In this paper, we present a new scalable approach that leads neither to discontinuities nor to significant loss of information. By projecting onto the bezels, we demonstrate that a combination of LCD-based tiled displays and projection significantly reduces the bezel problem. Our technique eliminates ambiguities that commonly occur on tiled displays in the fields of information visualization, visual data analysis, human-computer interaction, and scientific data display. It improves the usability of multimonitor systems by virtually eliminating the bezels. We describe a setup and provide results from an evaluation experiment conducted on a 3 times 3 and on a 10 times 5 tiled display wall.

Towards ubiquitous RE: A perspective on requirements engineering in the era of digital transformation
We are now living in the era of digital transformation: Innovative and digital business models are transforming the global business world and society. However, the authors of this paper have perceived barriers that prevent requirements engineers from contributing properly to the development of the software systems that underpin the digital transformation. We also realized that breaking down each of these barriers would contribute to requirements engineering (RE) becoming ubiquitous in certain dimensions: RE everywhere, with everyone, for everything, automated, accepting openness, and cross-domain. In this paper, we analyze each dimension of ubiquity in the scope of the interaction between requirements engineers and end users. In particular, we point out the transformation that is required to break down each barrier, present the perspective of the scientific community and our own practical perspective, and discuss our vision on how to achieve this dimension of ubiquity. Our goal is to raise the interest of the research community in providing approaches to address the barriers and move towards ubiquitous RE.

2D meets 3D: a human-centered interface for visual data exploration
There is still a controversial debate on the usefulness of 3D user interfaces. Most of the time, 2D metaphors are force-fitted to establish a rich set of functionality. With the aim of shifting the 20-year-old 2D WIMP (windows, icons, menus, and pointing device) paradigm towards a more natural and intuitive 3D user interface, we have developed a hybrid 2D + 3D prototype targeted at immersive environments. Our complementary display and interaction environment combines visual design techniques with mixed-mode interaction to support typical tasks of information workers to the greatest potential. To achieve this, we match visualization and interaction metaphors by the principle of dimensional congruence. This results in a sophisticated and more intuitive user interface. An ongoing evaluation gives encouraging feedback and shows that even non-expert users can efficiently work with the system.

Aesthetic computing manifesto.
The application of computing to aesthetics, and the formation of art and design, has a long history, which resulted in the emergence of computer art as a new art form in the1960s, with the integration of hardware, software, and cybernetics. We propose to look at the complementary area of applying aesthetics to computing. Computing, and its mathematical foundations, have their own pre-existing aesthetics; however, there is currently a difference between the relative lack of variety of these aesthetics in contrast to art, which has a long history containing of a multitude of historical genres and movements. We wish to strike a balance between cognitive and material aesthetics. Software as written in text or drawn with flow-charting may be considered elegant. But that is not to say that the software could not be rephrased or represented given more advanced media technologies that are available to us today, as compared with when printing was first developed. Such representation need not compromise the goals of abstraction, which is a necessary but not sufficient condition for mathematics and computing, as meaning, comprehension, and motivation may be enhanced if the presentation is guided by a pluralism of aesthetic choices and multiple sensory modalities.

Developing mobile apps using cross-platform frameworks: a case study
Emotion-prints: Interaction-driven emotion visualization on multi-touch interfaces
Emotions are one of the unique aspects of human nature, and sadly at the same time one of the elements that our technological world is failing to capture and consider due to their subtlety and inherent complexity. But with the current dawn of new technologies that enable the interpretation of emotional states based on techniques involving facial expressions, speech and intonation, electrodermal response (EDS) and brain-computer interfaces (BCIs), we are finally able to access real-time user emotions in various system interfaces. In this paper we introduce emotion-prints, an approach for visualizing user emotional valence and arousal in the context of multi-touch systems. Our goal is to offer a standardized technique for representing user affective states in the moment when and at the location where the interaction occurs in order to increase affective self-awareness, support awareness in collaborative and competitive scenarios, and offer a framework for aiding the evaluation of touch applications through emotion visualization. We show that emotion-prints are not only independent of the shape of the graphical objects on the touch display, but also that they can be applied regardless of the acquisition technique used for detecting and interpreting user emotions. Moreover, our representation can encode any affective information that can be decomposed or reduced to Russell's two-dimensional space of valence and arousal. Our approach is enforced by a BCI-based user study and a follow-up discussion of advantages and limitations.

Emotion scents: a method of representing user emotions on gui widgets
The world of desktop interfaces has been dominated for years by the concept of windows and standardized user interface (UI) components. Still, while supporting the interaction and information exchange between the users and the computer system, graphical user interface (GUI) widgets are rather one-sided, neglecting to capture the subjective facets of the user experience. In this paper, we propose a set of design guidelines for visualizing user emotions on standard GUI widgets (e.g., buttons, check boxes, etc.) in order to enrich the interface with a new dimension of subjective information by adding support for emotion awareness as well as post-task analysis and decision making. We highlight the use of an EEG headset for recording the various emotional states of the user while he/she is interacting with the widgets of the interface. We propose a visualization approach, called emotion scents, that allows users to view emotional reactions corresponding to di erent GUI widgets without in uencing the layout or changing the positioning of these widgets. Our approach does not focus on highlighting the emotional experience during the interaction with an entire system, but on representing the emotional perceptions and reactions generated by the interaction with a particular UI component. Our research is motivated by enabling emotional self-awareness and subjectivity analysis through the proposed emotionenhanced UI components for desktop interfaces. These assumptions are further supported by an evaluation of emotion scents.

Controlling in-vehicle systems with a commercial eeg headset: performance and cognitive load
Humans have dreamed for centuries to control their surroundings solely by the power of theirminds. These aspirations have been captured by multiple science fiction creations, like theNeuromancer no ...

Tangible and wearable user interfaces for supporting collaboration among emergency workers
Using smart phones for large-display interaction
Due to their size, large high-resolution screens have become popular display devices used in collaborative scenarios. However, traditional interaction methods based on combinations of computer mice and keyboards often do not scale to the number of users or the size of the display. Modern smart phones featuring multi-modal input/output by means of built-in cameras, acceleration sensors, internet capability, touch screens and considerable memory offer a way to address these issues. In the last couple of years they have become common everyday life gadgets. In this paper we conduct an extensive user study comparing the experience of test candidates when using traditional input devices and metaphors with the one when using new smart phone based techniques, like multi-modal drag and tilt. Candidates were asked to complete various 2D and 3D interaction tasks relevant for most applications on a large, monitor-based, high-resolution tiled wall system. Our study evaluates both user performance and satisfaction, identifying strengths and weaknesses of the researched interaction methods in specific tasks. By breaking these tasks down into a well-defined set of subtasks the results of each task are comparable to each other and can be classified by subtask and use case. Results reveal a superior performance of users in certain tasks when using the new interaction techniques. Even first-time users were able to complete a task faster with the smart phone than with traditional devices.

Biology of skates
Data on the vigour and at-vessel mortality (AVM) of 6798 skates (comprising Raja clavata n = 6295; R. brachyura n = 208; R. undulata n = 185, R. montagui n = 98 and R. microocellata n = 12) captured by commercial fishing vessels in the inshore waters of the southern North Sea and English Channel were recorded. AVM in longline fisheries averaged 0·44% across five vessels (0-1·47%), although skates were usually unhooked manually and did not usually pass through a bait-stripper. AVM in otter trawls averaged 0·76% (0-2·35%), from four vessels fishing with tow durations of <1·5 h (southern North Sea) or 1-4 h (English Channel). No AVM was noted for skates taken as a by-catch in drift trammel nets (soak times <4 h). Anchored tangle nets resulted in an overall AVM of 2·0-2·7%, but increased from 1·47% (13-28 h soak time) to 6·16% (42-53 h soak time). There were significant differences in the vigour of skates between gears, with R. clavata caught by longline and tangle nets in better condition than those captured by otter trawl or drift trammel net. Similarly, R. undulata caught by tangle net were in better condition than those caught by otter trawl. The vigour of R. undulata was also found to be higher than other skate species for both trawl and tangle net. In total, 5283 skates were tagged with Petersen discs and released, with recapture rates for the various combinations of vessel and gear ranging up to 24·8% for R. clavata. Whilst confirming a degree of post-release survival, quantitative estimates of post-release mortality for skates remain unknown.

DONE