Industrial internet of things: Challenges, opportunities, and directions
Internet of Things (IoT) is an emerging domain that promises ubiquitous connection to the Internet, turning common objects into connected devices. The IoT paradigm is changing the way people interact with things around them. It paves the way for creating pervasively connected infrastructures to support innovative services and promises better flexibility and efficiency. Such advantages are attractive not only for consumer applications, but also for the industrial domain. Over the last few years, we have been witnessing the IoT paradigm making its way into the industry marketplace with purposely designed solutions. In this paper, we clarify the concepts of IoT, Industrial IoT, and Industry 4.0. We highlight the opportunities brought in by this paradigm shift as well as the challenges for its realization. In particular, we focus on the challenges associated with the need of energy efficiency, real-time performance, coexistence, interoperability, and security and privacy. We also provide a systematic overview of the state-of-the-art research efforts and potential research directions to solve Industrial IoT challenges.

An internet of things framework for smart energy in buildings: designs, prototype, and experiments
Smart energy in buildings is an important research area of Internet of Things (IoT). As important parts of the smart grids, the energy efficiency of buildings is vital for the environment and global sustainability. Using a LEED-gold-certificated green office building, we built a unique IoT experimental testbed for our energy efficiency and building intelligence research. We first monitor and collect 1-year-long building energy usage data and then systematically evaluate and analyze them. The results show that due to the centralized and static building controls, the actual running of green buildings may not be energy efficient even though they may be “green” by design. Inspired by “energy proportional computing” in modern computers, we propose an IoT framework with smart location-based automated and networked energy control, which uses smartphone platform and cloud-computing technologies to enable multiscale energy proportionality including building-, user-, and organizational-level energy proportionality. We further build a proof-of-concept IoT network and control system prototype and carried out real-world experiments, which demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed solution. We envision that the broad application of the proposed solution has not only led to significant economic benefits in term of energy saving, improving home/office network intelligence, but also bought in a huge social implication in terms of global sustainability.

Real-time wireless sensor-actuator networks for industrial cyber-physical systems
With recent adoption of wireless sensor-actuator networks (WSANs) in industrial automation, industrial wireless control systems have emerged as a frontier of cyber-physical systems. Despite their success in industrial monitoring applications, existing WSAN technologies face significant challenges in supporting control systems due to their lack of real-time performance and dynamic wireless conditions in industrial plants. This article reviews a series of recent advances in real-time WSANs for industrial control systems: 1) real-time scheduling algorithms and analyses for WSANs; 2) implementation and experimentation of industrial WSAN protocols; 3) cyber-physical codesign of wireless control systems that integrate wireless and control designs; and 4) a wireless cyber-physical simulator for codesign and evaluation of wireless control systems. This article concludes by highlighting research directions in industrial cyber-physical systems.

Multi-core real-time scheduling for generalized parallel task models
Real-time scheduling for WirelessHART networks
WirelessHART is an open wireless sensor-actuator network standard for industrial process monitoring and control that requires real-time data communication between sensor and actuator devices. Salient features of a WirelessHART network include a centralized network management architecture, multi-channel TDMA transmission, redundant routes, and avoidance of spatial reuse of channels for enhanced reliability and real-time performance. This paper makes several key contributions to real-time transmission scheduling in WirelessHART networks: (1) formulation of the end-to-end real-time transmission scheduling problem based on the characteristics of WirelessHART, (2) proof of NP-hardness of the problem, (3) an optimal branch-and-bound scheduling algorithm based on a necessary condition for schedulability, and (4) an efficient and practical heuristic-based scheduling algorithm called Conflict-aware Least Laxity First (C-LLF). Extensive simulations based on both random topologies and real network topologies of a physical testbed demonstrate that C-LLF is highly effective in meeting end-to-end deadlines in WirelessHART networks, and significantly outperforms common real-time scheduling policies.

Analysis of federated and global scheduling for parallel real-time tasks
This paper considers the scheduling of parallel real-time tasks with implicit deadlines. Each parallel task is characterized as a general directed acyclic graph (DAG). We analyze three different real-time scheduling strategies: two well known algorithms, namely global earliest-deadline-first and global rate-monotonic, and one new algorithm, namely federated scheduling. The federated scheduling algorithm proposed in this paper is a generalization of partitioned scheduling to parallel tasks. In this strategy, each high-utilization task (utilization ≥ 1) is assigned a set of dedicated cores and the remaining low-utilization tasks share the remaining cores. We prove capacity augmentation bounds for all three schedulers. In particular, we show that if on unit-speed cores, a task set has total utilization of at most m and the critical-path length of each task is smaller than its deadline, then federated scheduling can schedule that task set on m cores of speed 2, G-EDF can schedule it with speed 3 + √5/2 ≈ 2.618, and G-RM can schedule it with speed 2 + √3 ≈ 3.732. We also provide lower bounds on the speedup and show that the bounds are tight for federated scheduling and G-EDF when m is sufficiently large.

Parallel real-time scheduling of DAGs
Recently, multi-core processors have become mainstream in processor design. To take full advantage of multi-core processing, computation-intensive real-time systems must exploit intra-task parallelism. In this paper, we address the problem of realtime scheduling for a general model of deterministic parallel tasks, where each task is represented as a directed acyclic graph (DAG) with nodes having arbitrary execution requirements. We prove processor-speed augmentation bounds for both preemptive and nonpreemptive real-time scheduling for general DAG tasks on multi-core processors. We first decompose each DAG into sequential tasks with their own release times and deadlines. Then we prove that these decomposed tasks can be scheduled using preemptive global EDF with a resource augmentation bound of 4. This bound is as good as the best known bound for more restrictive models, and is the first for a general DAG model. We also prove that the decomposition has a resource augmentation bound of 4 plus a constant non-preemption overhead for non-preemptive global EDF scheduling. To our knowledge, this is the first resource augmentation bound for non-preemptive scheduling of parallel tasks. Finally, we evaluate our analytical results through simulations that demonstrate that the derived resource augmentation bounds are safe in practice.

End-to-end communication delay analysis in industrial wireless networks
WirelessHART is a new standard specifically designed for real-time and reliable communication between sensor and actuator devices for industrial process monitoring and control applications. End-to-end communication delay analysis for WirelessHART networks is required to determine the schedulability of real-time data flows from sensors to actuators for the purpose of acceptance test or workload adjustment in response to network dynamics. In this paper, we consider a network model based on WirelessHART, and map the scheduling of real-time periodic data flows in the network to real-time multiprocessor scheduling. We then exploit the response time analysis for multiprocessor scheduling and propose a novel method for the delay analysis that establishes an upper bound of the end-to-end communication delay of each real-time flow in the network. Simulation studies based on both random topologies and real network topologies of a 74-node physical wireless sensor network testbed demonstrate that our analysis provides safe and reasonably tight upper bounds of the end-to-end delays of real-time flows, and hence enables effective schedulability tests for WirelessHART networks.

Low-power wide-area networks: opportunities, challenges, and directions
Low-Power Wide-Area Network (LPWAN) is an emerging network technology for Internet of Things (IoT) which offers long-range and wide-area communication at low-power. It thus overcomes the range limits and scalability challenges associated with traditional short range wireless sensor networks. Due to their escalating demand, LPWANs are gaining momentum, with multiple competing technologies currently being developed. Despite their promise, existing LPWAN technologies raise a number of challenges in terms of spectrum limitation, coexistence, mobility, scalability, coverage, security, and application-specific requirements which make their adoption challenging. In this paper, we identify the key opportunities of LPWAN, highlight the challenges, and show potential directions of the future research on LPWAN.

End-to-end delay analysis for fixed priority scheduling in WirelessHART networks
The WirelessHART standard has been specifically designed for real-time communication between sensor and actuator devices for industrial process monitoring and control. End-to-end communication delay analysis for WirelessHART networks is required for acceptance test of real-time data flows from sensors to actuators and for workload adjustment in response to network dynamics. In this paper, we map the scheduling of real-time periodic data flows in a WirelessHART network to real-time multiprocessor scheduling. We, then, exploit the response time analysis for multiprocessor scheduling and propose a novel method for the end-to-end delay analysis of the real-time flows that are scheduled using a fixed priority scheduling policy in a WirelessHART network. Simulations based on both random topologies and real network topologies of a physical testbed demonstrate the efficacy of our end-to-end delay analysis in terms of acceptance ratio under various fixed priority scheduling policies.

Near optimal rate selection for wireless control systems
With the advent of industrial standards such as Wireless Hart, process industries are now gravitating towards wireless control systems. Due to limited bandwidth in a wireless network shared by multiple control loops, it is critical to optimize the overall control performance. In this paper, we address the scheduling-control co-design problem of determining the optimal sampling rates of feedback control loops sharing a Wireless Hart network. The objective is to minimize the overall control cost while ensuring that all data flows meet their end-to-end deadlines. The resulting constrained optimization based on existing delay bounds for Wireless Hart networks is challenging since it is non-differentiable, non-linear, and not in closed-form. We propose four methods to solve this problem. First, we present a sub gradient method for rate selection. Second, we propose a greedy heuristic that usually achieves low control cost while significantly reducing the execution time. Third, we propose a global constrained optimization algorithm using a simulated annealing (SA) based penalty method. Finally, we formulate rate selection as a differentiable convex optimization problem that provides a closed-form solution through a gradient descent method. This is based on a new delay bound that is convex and differentiable, and hence simplifies the optimization problem. We evaluate all methods through simulations based on topologies of a 74-node wireless sensor network testbed. Surprisingly, the sub gradient method is disposed to incur the longest execution time as well as the highest control cost among all methods. SA and the greedy heuristic represent the opposite ends of the trade off between control cost and execution time, while the gradient descent method hits the balance between the two.

Distributed channel allocation protocols for wireless sensor networks
Interference between concurrent transmissions can cause severe performance degradation in wireless sensor networks (WSNs). While multiple channels available in WSN technology such as IEEE 802.15.4 can be exploited to mitigate interference, channel allocation can have a significant impact on the performance of multi-channel communication. This paper proposes a set of distributed protocols for channel allocation in WSNs with theoretical bounds. We first consider the problem of minimizing the number of channels needed to remove interference in a WSN, and propose both receiver-based and link-based distributed channel allocation protocols. Then, for WSNs with an insufficient number of channels, we formulate a fair channel allocation problem whose objective is to minimize the maximum interference (MinMax) experienced by any transmission link in the network. We prove that MinMax channel allocation is NP-hard, and propose a distributed link-based MinMax channel allocation protocol. Finally, we propose a distributed protocol for link scheduling based on MinMax channel allocation that creates a conflict-free schedule for transmissions. The proposed decentralized protocols are efficient, scalable, and adaptive to channel condition and network dynamics. Simulations based on the topologies and data traces collected from a WSN testbed of 74 TelosB motes have shown that our channel allocation protocols significantly outperform a state-of-the-art channel allocation protocol.

Multi-application deployment in shared sensor networks based on quality of monitoring
Wireless sensor networks are evolving from dedicated application-specific platforms to integrated infrastructure shared by multiple applications. Shared sensor networks offer inherent advantages in terms of flexibility and cost since they allow dynamic resource sharing and allocation among multiple applications. Such shared systems face the critical need for allocation of nodes to contending applications to enhance the overall Quality of Monitoring (QoM) under resource constraints. To address this need, this paper presents Utility-based Multi-application Allocation and Deployment Environment (UMADE), an integrated application deployment system for shared sensor networks. In sharp contrast to traditional approaches that allocate applications based on cyber metrics (e.g., computing resource utilization), UMADE adopts a cyber-physical system approach that dynamically allocates nodes to applications based on their QoM of the physical phenomena. The key novelty of UMADE is that it is designed to deal with the inter-node QoM dependencies typical in cyber-physical applications. Furthermore, UMADE provides an integrated system solution that supports the end-to-end process of (1) QoM specification for applications, (2) QoM-aware application allocation, (3) application deployment over multi-hop wireless networks, and (4) adaptive reallocation of applications in response to network dynamics. UMADE has been implemented on TinyOS and Agilla virtual machine for Telos motes. The feasibility and efficacy of UMADE have been demonstrated on a 28-node wireless sensor network testbed in the context of building automation applications.

SNOW: Sensor network over white spaces
Wireless sensor networks (WSNs) face significant scalability challenges due to the proliferation of wide-area wireless monitoring and control systems that require thousands of sensors to be connected over long distances. Due to their short communication range, existing WSN technologies such as those based on IEEE 802.15.4 form many-hop mesh networks complicating the protocol design and network deployment. To address this limitation, we propose a scalable sensor network architecture - called Sensor Network Over White Spaces (SNOW) - by exploiting the TV white spaces. Many WSN applications need low data rate, low power operation, and scalability in terms of geographic areas and the number of nodes. The long communication range of white space radios significantly increases the chances of packet collision at the base station. We achieve scalability and energy efficiency by splitting channels into narrowband orthogonal subcarriers and enabling packet receptions on the subcarriers in parallel with a single radio. The physical layer of SNOW is designed through a distributed implementation of OFDM that enables distinct orthogonal signals from distributed nodes. Its MAC protocol handles subcarrier allocation among the nodes and transmission scheduling. We implement SNOW in GNU radio using USRP devices. Experiments demonstrate that it can correctly decode in less than 0.1ms multiple packets received in parallel at different subcarriers, thus drastically enhancing the scalability of WSN.

