Nest poaching in Neotropical parrots
Abstract: Although the poaching of nestlings for the pet trade is thought to contribute to the decline of many species of parrots, its effects have been poorly demonstrated. We calculated rates of mortality due to nest poaching in 23 studies of Neotropical parrots, representing 4024 nesting attempts in 21 species and 14 countries. We also examined how poaching rates vary with geographic region, presence of active protection programs, conservation status and economic value of a species, and passage of the U.S. Wild Bird Conservation Act. The average poaching rate across all studies was 30% of all nests observed. Thirteen studies reported poaching rates of ≥20%, and four reported rates openface> 70%. Only six studies documented no nest poaching. Of these, four were conducted on islands in the Caribbean region, which had significantly lower poaching rates than the mainland Neotropics. The other two studies that showed no poaching were conducted on the two species with the lowest economic value in our sample ( U.S. retail price). In four studies that allowed direct comparison between poaching at sites with active nest protection versus that at unprotected sites, poaching rates were significantly lower at protected sites, suggesting that active protection efforts can be effective in reducing nest poaching. In those studies conducted both before and after the passage of the U.S. Wild Bird Conservation Act, poaching rates were found to be significantly lower following its enactment than in the period before. This result supports the hypothesis that the legal and illegal parrot trades are positively related, rather than inversely related as has been suggested by avicultural interests. Overall, our study indicates that poaching of parrot nestlings for economic gain is a widespread and biologically significant source of nest mortality in Neotropical parrots.

Current threats faced by Neotropical parrot populations
Reproductive parameters and productivity of the Yellow-shouldered Parrot on Margarita Island, Venezuela: a long-term study
Abstract We studied the breeding biology of the Yellow-shouldered Parrot (Amazona barbadensis) on Margarita Island from March-August, 1990 to 1999. The timing of the different phases (egg-laying, hatching, fledging) was consistent over the years, except during 1998 when all phases were delayed. The average clutch size was 3.38 ± 0.78 eggs per nest, with a range of one to five eggs per clutch, and most eggs survived until hatching (3.36 ± 0.80 eggs per nest). Total clutch size and hatching success of this species on Margarita Island are among the highest in the genus Amazona, suggesting the Yellow-shouldered Parrot has a higher reproductive potential than other species of the genus. We detected interannual differences for some of the reproductive parameters, all in 1998, a year with an extreme drought. Egg losses totaled 20% and were caused by hatching failure, predation, and human disturbance. Forty-nine percent of nestlings were lost, mainly due to poaching. The number of fledglings per nesting pair averaged 1.27 ± 1.61, but varied greatly among years. Thus, in relation to the average total clutch laid, each pair lost an average of 62% of its initial reproductive investment.

Different meal, same flavor: cospeciation and host switching of haemosporidian parasites in some non-passerine birds
Diversity of avian haemosporidians in arid zones of northern Venezuela
SUMMARY Arid zones of northern Venezuela are represented by isolated areas, important from an ornithological and ecological perspective due to the occurrence of restricted-range species of birds. We analysed the prevalence and molecular diversity of haemosporidian parasites of wild birds in this region by screening 527 individuals (11 families and 20 species) for parasite mitochondrial DNA. The overall prevalence of parasites was 41%, representing 17 mitochondrial lineages: 7 of Plasmodium and 10 of Haemoproteus. Two parasite lineages occurred in both the eastern and western regions infecting a single host species, Mimus gilvus. These lineages are also present throughout northern and central Venezuela in a variety of arid and mesic habitats. Some lineages found in this study in northern Venezuela have also been observed in different localities in the Americas, including the West Indies. In spite of the widespread distributions of some of the parasite lineages found in northern Venezuela, several, including some that are relatively common (e.g. Ven05 and Ven06), have not been reported from elsewhere. Additional studies are needed to characterize the host and geographical distribution of avian malaria parasite lineages, which will provide a better understanding of the influence of landscape, vector abundance and diversity, and host identity on haemosporidian parasite diversity and prevalence.

Use of artificial nests by the Yellow-shouldered Parrot (Amazona barbadensis)
The use of artificial nests is a management technique used to increase the breeding population of endangered parrots. As part of a program devoted to the conservation of the Yellow-shouldered Parrot (Amazona barbadensis) on Margarita Island, Venezuela, we placed 16 wooden nests in one of the species' breeding areas in 1993. The dimensions of nest boxes were based on the average measurements of natural cavities used as nests by Yellow-shouldered Parrots. Artificial nests were placed on tree species used by nesting Yellow-shouldered Parrots, and on other tree species as well. Artificial nests were used by Yellow- shouldered Parrots for the first time in 1997, and during our study a total of four different boxes were used from 1997 to 1999. The overall success of Yellow-shouldered Parrots with artificial nests was poor (5.6%). This could be due to design problems of artificial nests or to the possibility that cavities were not a limiting resource in this area. Artificial nests suffered higher poaching rates because they were more conspicuous and the chicks were readily accessible through an observation door. A program to recover and improve natural cavities resulted more successful as a management technique for Yellow-shouldered Parrots. All 15 repaired cavities were used repeatedly shortly after being available. Accepted 21 November 2002.

Diversity patterns of bird assemblages in arid zones of northern Venezuela
Abstract In northern Venezuela, arid zones are represented by isolated areas, which are important from an ornithological perspective because of the occurrence of restricted-range birds, which depend exclusively on arid scrub for their survival. From September 2004 to August 2005, bird surveys were conducted bimonthly using distance sampling at point counts in six areas of northern Venezuela, which differ in size and geological origin. A total of 21 228 individuals representing 96 species and 26 families were recorded throughout the study areas. Bird species richness, community composition, and species abundance varied among areas. Number of species recorded per area ranged from 37 to 82. An analysis of similarity showed that areas differed in overall community composition based on species presence or absence (Global R = 0.68). The Vermilion Cardinal (Cardinalis phoeniceus) was the only restricted-range species with a high indicator value (52%) identified through an indicator species analysis. The most abundant birds in all six areas were widespread generalist species, such as the Tropical Mockingbird (Mimus gilvus) and Tropical Gnatcatcher (Polioptila plumbea), and only one of the restricted-range birds, the Buffy Hummingbird (Leucippus fallax), had high densities (range: 2.67–9.00 individuals ha−1) throughout all the study areas. Densities of two restricted-range birds, the Yellow-shouldered Parrot (Amazona barbadensis) and Vermilion Cardinal varied among areas as a consequence of poaching in some areas. Species richness was not a reliable indicator of an area's conservation value because the protection of the area with highest species richness does not guarantee the effective conservation of all the restricted-range birds.

Habitat use and relative abundance of the spotted paca Cuniculus paca (Linnaeus, 1766)(Rodentia: Cuniculidae) and the red-rumped agouti Dasyprocta leporina (Linnaeus, 1758 …
The Spotted Paca Cuniculus paca and the Red-rumped Agouti Dasyprocta leporina are affected by habitat loss and hunting.  In Venezuela, their conservation status is unknown, even within protected areas.  The objective of this study was to estimate the relative abundance, activity patterns, habitat use, and effect of human activities on these species in Venezuela.  To achieve this, 26 camera-trap stations (20.8km 2 ) were established in Guatopo National Park between February and April 2011, characterization of the habitat was undertaken and occupancy models were created.  The relative abundance of the Spotted Paca was 1.62 captures/100trap-nights, with a fully nocturnal activity pattern.  The relative abundance of the Red-rumped Agouti was 2.32 captures/100trap-nights, with a pronounced diurnal activity pattern. The occupation probability of the Red-rumped Agouti (0.61 SE 0.02) was higher than that of the Spotted Paca (0.27 SE 0.02). Spotted Pacas were mainly found in areas with mature forest and high tree density, whereas the  Red-rumped Agoutis were most frequently found in valleys with little disturbed forest.  A positive correlation was found between illegal hunting activities and areas occupied by the Spotted Paca.  It is important to strengthen the park control measurements to reduce illegal hunting of Spotted Pacas.

Natural history and population status of the yellow-shouldered parrot on La Blanquilla Island, Venezuela
Abstract The Yellow-shouldered Parrot (Amazona barbadensis) has a disjunct geographical distribution and the smallest population of the species inhabits La Blanquilla Island in the southern part of the Caribbean Sea. We conducted field work from 1993 to 1998 to gather information on the natural history and population status of this parrot on La Blanquilla. We compared that information with similar data gathered previously from Margarita Island. We found three communal roosts on La Blanquilla and estimated the parrot population to be ∼100 individuals. We found an average of 8.8 ± 3.6 active nests/year; all nests were in the central and western parts of the island, mainly in tree cavities of Guaiacum officinale. Nests on La Blanquilla Island were closer to the ground than nests on Margarita Island. The breeding season on La Blanquilla Island started later and clutch size was lower (2.24 ± 0.95 eggs/nest) than on Margarita Island. Parrots were observed foraging on 12 plant species; most observations involved consumption of the fruit of Casearia tremula (Flacourtiaceae). The main threats to Yellow-shouldered Parrots on La Blanquilla are predation and illegal poaching. Survival of the Yellow-shouldered Parrot on La Blanquilla Island is uncertain because of small population size and increasing threat levels.

Nuevos registros de aberraciones en el plumaje para varias especies de aves en Venezuela
We report the first observations of partial leucism in Columbina inca and Quiscalus mexicanus, and also present the first record of albinism in Mexico for Q....

Diet, food preferences, and digestive efficiency of the Grayish Saltator, a partly folivorous passerine
Abstract We studied the diet of the Grayish Saltator (Saltator coerulescens) during the rainy and dry seasons in the Venezuelan llanos and examined its food preferences, digesta retention time, rate of food intake, and digestive efficiency, in captivity. Grayish Saltators fed almost exclusively on plant tissues throughout the year. Fruits and leaves were the most commonly consumed items, comprising 36% and 28% of the diet, respectively, averaged over the entire year. In pairwise choice trials, saltators preferred fruits over leaves and flowers, and wild over cultivated leaves. In the laboratory, saltators displayed food-processing traits typical of frugivorous passerines. When feeding on a fruit (banana mash) diet, they had a fast rate of food passage (digesta mean retention time  =  54 ± 26 min) and a relatively low digestive efficiency (average metabolizable energy coefficient  =  0.59 ± 0.11), which was compensated for by high rates of food intake (1.4 times body mass). Mean retention time of a leaf-supplemented diet was slightly shorter (average  =  45 ± 17 min). Birds maintained or increased their body masses under laboratory conditions when fed on a fruit diet but did not when fed exclusively with leaves. Saltators spent very little time foraging, and the amount of time varied seasonally (5% and 17% of the time in the rainy and dry seasons, respectively). Most of their time (ca. 50%) was dedicated to resting. The morphology of the digestive tract of this species is similar to other frugivorous birds, but the inner edge of the maxilla is serrated. We found no evidence of cellulolytic activity in the Grayish Saltator's gut. Together, all of these characteristics indicate that Grayish Saltators are partial folivores that rely on a “skimming” strategy of food consumption.

Nidificación del caracolero (Haematopus palliatus) en la Península de Paraguaná, Venezuela
Current distribution, habitat use, and breeding records of the house sparrow (Passer domesticus) in Venezuela
ABSTRACT ∙ The House Sparrow (Passer domesticus, Passeridae), native to Eurasia and northern Africa, was introduced to the Americas and Australia where it inhabits mainly urban environments. The objective of this study was to determine the distribution of the House Sparrow in Venezuela from our own observations and data reported in personal communications, published material, and eBird records. House Sparrows were recorded for first time in Venezuela in 1996 at the port of La Guaira. Since then, records have increased, and we found 133 records of the House Sparrow until July 2015, in the states of Falcón, Zulia, Vargas, Miranda, Carabobo, Anzoátegui, and Los Roques Archipelago. The states of Falcón and Vargas included the greatest number of records, and 2015 was the year with the most records. Most sightings occurred in urban areas of coastal Venezuela. House Sparrows were recorded within three protected areas: Refugio de Fauna Silvestre de Cuare (Falcón), Refugio de Fauna Silvestre y Reserva de Pesca Ciénaga de los Olivitos (Zulia), and Parque Nacional Archipiélago Los Roques. Two records for Caracas, one for Barquisimeto and another for Margarita Island, need confirmation. Breeding was confirmed in five states where the House Sparrow is currently present, and records indicated that the nesting season extends from February to November. Most nests (84%) were located in man‐made structures, but two breeding records included a nesting colony in cavities of an exotic palm (Phoenix sp.) in Falcón and a nest under a pile of dead coral fragments in Los Roques Archipelago. We found evidence of foraging on new food items from two coastal trees (Conocarpus erectus and Coccoloba uvifera). Formal research and long‐term surveys are required to assess the functional ecological role of this exotic species in the avian communities of Venezuela.  RESUMEN ∙ Distribución actual, uso de hábitat y registros reproductivos del Gorrión Común (Passer domesticus) en Venezuela El Gorrión Común (Passer domesticus, Passeridae), nativo de Eurasia y el norte de África, fue introducido en gran parte de América y Australia, donde ocupa principalmente hábitats urbanos. El objetivo de este trabajo consistió en determinar la distribución del Gorrión Común en Venezuela con base en nuestras observaciones y datos reportados en comunicaciones personales, material publicado y registros en eBird. Los Gorriones Comunes se registraron por primera vez en Venezuela en 1996 en el puerto de La Guaira. Desde entonces, el número de registros se ha incrementado y nosotros encontramos 133 registros de Gorrión Común fechados hasta el julio de 2015 para los estados Falcón, Zulia, Vargas, Miranda, Carabobo, Anzoátegui y el Archipiélago de Los Roques. Los estados con mayor número de registros fueron Falcón y Vargas, y el año con el mayor número de registros fue 2015. La mayor parte de los avistamientos se realizaron dentro de áreas urbanas en la costa de Venezuela. Se registraron gorriones en tres áreas protegidas: el Refugio de Fauna Silvestre de Cuare (Falcón), el Refugio de Fauna Silvestre y Reserva de Pesca Ciénaga de los Olivitos (Zulia) y el Parque Nacional Archipiélago Los Roques. Dos reportes de avistamientos para Caracas, uno para Barquisimeto y otro para la Isla de Margarita requieren confirmación. La reproducción fue confirmada en cinco de los estados donde el Gorrión Común está presente actualmente, y los registros indican que la época reproductiva se extiende de febrero a noviembre. La mayoría de los nidos (84%) se ubicaron en estructuras hechas por el hombre, pero dos registros reproductivos incluyen una colonia de anidación en cavidades de una palma exótica (Phoenix sp.) en Falcón, y un nido bajo una pila de fragmentos de coral muerto en el Archipiélago de Los Roques. Encontramos nueva evidencia de alimentación con ítems de dos árboles costeros (Conocarpus erectus y Coccoloba uvifera). Estudios formales y monitoreo a largo plazo son necesarios para evaluar el rol ecológico funcional de esta especie exótica en las comunidades de aves en Venezuela.

High incidence of color aberrations in the Plain-flanked Rail (Rallus wetmorei)
No abstract.

Banded Red Knots Calidris canutus sighted in Venezuela and Uruguay
Noteworthy observations of the birds of Falcón state, northwestern Venezuela
Fishing behavior of the Carib grackle (Quiscalus lugubris) in Venezuela
No abstract.

First description of the nest and eggs of the Plain-flanked-Rail (Rallus wetmorei)
Ciencia y Conservación de Especies Amenazadas en Venezuela: Conservación basada en Evidencias e Intervenciones Estratégicas
Status and distribution of the House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) in Venezuela
The House Sparrow (Passer domesticus) is a Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, the Bahamember of the Ploceidae, a family of birds that is Ethiopian in origin (Summers-Smith 1963, 1988). Unlike some of its congeners, it has not only adapted, but apparently evolved to thrive in environments created by man (Summers-Smith 1963, 1988). The House Sparrow’s ability to benefit from human activities has resulted in the species flourishing in many areas of the world (Clement et al. 1993). It was introduced in South America (Argentina and Chile) and the Caribbean (Cuba) in the late XIX century (Voous 1983, Fjeldså & Krabbe 1990). It is locally common in urban areas of a large part of South America (NW Colombia, W Ecuador, W Peru, and more widely spread from Bolivia and Chile east across most of Argentina, Uruguay, and Paraguay to E Brazil), and continues to spread to new areas (Ridgely and Tudor 1989). In the Caribbean the species is established in Cuba, mas and the Netherlands Antilles and has recently colonized the Virgin Islands (Voous 1983, Raffaele et al. 1998). The species was first recorded in Venezuela in 1996 when a flock of about 30 individuals associated with Saffron Finches (Sicalis flaveola) was observed by DA at the port of La Guaira, Vargas (Sharpe et al. 1997). The fate of this population is not clear. It might have been extirpated during the extraordinary flooding events that took place in northern Vargas in December 1999, since birds were not observed in subsequent visits to the area during 2001 and 2002 (DA). Alternatively, recent sights in nearby areas suggest that the population may have moved to new grounds at the time of the flooding. Here we present new records of this species from northern Venezuela, including the first confirmed breeding reports for the country.

DONE