Introduction to evolutionary computing
Parameter control in evolutionary algorithms
Parameter tuning for configuring and analyzing evolutionary algorithms
Genetic algorithms with multi-parent recombination
Parameter control in evolutionary algorithms: Trends and challenges
More than a decade after the first extensive overview on parameter control, we revisit the field and present a survey of the state-of-the-art. We briefly summarize the development of the field and discuss existing work related to each major parameter or component of an evolutionary algorithm. Based on this overview, we observe trends in the area, identify some (methodological) shortcomings, and give recommendations for future research.

From evolutionary computation to the evolution of things
Global convergence of genetic algorithms: A Markov chain analysis
Parameter control in evolutionary algorithms
Optimized flocking of autonomous drones in confined environments
A flocking model that uses an evolutionary optimization framework is validated with a self-organized swarm of 30 drones. We address a fundamental issue of collective motion of aerial robots: how to ensure that large flocks of autonomous drones seamlessly navigate in confined spaces. The numerous existing flocking models are rarely tested on actual hardware because they typically neglect some crucial aspects of multirobot systems. Constrained motion and communication capabilities, delays, perturbations, or the presence of barriers should be modeled and treated explicitly because they have large effects on collective behavior during the cooperation of real agents. Handling these issues properly results in additional model complexity and a natural increase in the number of tunable parameters, which calls for appropriate optimization methods to be coupled tightly to model development. In this paper, we propose such a flocking model for real drones incorporating an evolutionary optimization framework with carefully chosen order parameters and fitness functions. We numerically demonstrated that the induced swarm behavior remained stable under realistic conditions for large flock sizes and notably for large velocities. We showed that coherent and realistic collective motion patterns persisted even around perturbing obstacles. Furthermore, we validated our model on real hardware, carrying out field experiments with a self-organized swarm of 30 drones. This is the largest of such aerial outdoor systems without central control reported to date exhibiting flocking with collective collision and object avoidance. The results confirmed the adequacy of our approach. Successfully controlling dozens of quadcopters will enable substantially more efficient task management in various contexts involving drones.

On evolutionary exploration and exploitation
Exploration and exploitation are the two cornerstones of problem solving by search. The common opinion about evolutionary algorithms is that they explore the search space by the (genetic) search operators, while exploitation is done by selection. This opinion is, however, questionable. In this paper we give a survey of different operators, review existing viewpoints on exploration and exploitation, and point out some discrepancies between and problems with current views.

Adaptation in evolutionary computation: A survey
Adaptation of parameters and operators is one of the most important and promising areas of research in evolutionary computation; it tunes the algorithm to the problem while solving the problem. In this paper we develop a classification of adaptation on the basis of the mechanisms used, and the level at which adaptation operates within the evolutionary algorithm. The classification covers all forms of adaptation in evolutionary computation and suggests further research.

Comparing parameter tuning methods for evolutionary algorithms
Tuning the parameters of an evolutionary algorithm (EA) to a given problem at hand is essential for good algorithm performance. Optimizing parameter values is, however, a non-trivial problem, beyond the limits of human problem solving.In this light it is odd that no parameter tuning algorithms are used widely in evolutionary computing. This paper is meant to be stepping stone towards a better practice by discussing the most important issues related to tuning EA parameters, describing a number of existing tuning methods, and presenting a modest experimental comparison among them. The paper is concluded by suggestions for future research - hopefully inspiring fellow researchers for further work.

Evolutionary robotics: what, why, and where to
Evolutionary robotics applies the selection, variation, and heredity principles of natural evolution to the design of robots with embodied intelligence. It can be considered as a subfield of robotics that aims to create more robust and adaptive robots. A pivotal feature of the evolutionary approach is that it considers the whole robot at once, and enables the exploitation of robot features in a holistic manner. Evolutionary robotics can also be seen as an innovative approach to the study of evolution based on a new kind of experimentalism. The use of robots as a substrate can help address questions that are difficult, if not impossible, to investigate through computer simulations or biological studies. In this paper we consider the main achievements of evolutionary robotics, focusing particularly on its contributions to both engineering and biology. We briefly elaborate on methodological issues, review some of the most interesting findings, and discuss important open issues and promising avenues for future work.

Evolutionary robotics: what, why, and where to
Evolutionary robotics applies the selection, variation, and heredity principles of natural evolution to the design of robots with embodied intelligence. It can be considered as a subfield of robotics that aims to create more robust and adaptive robots. A pivotal feature of the evolutionary approach is that it considers the whole robot at once, and enables the exploitation of robot features in a holistic manner. Evolutionary robotics can also be seen as an innovative approach to the study of evolution based on a new kind of experimentalism. The use of robots as a substrate can help address questions that are difficult, if not impossible, to investigate through computer simulations or biological studies. In this paper we consider the main achievements of evolutionary robotics, focusing particularly on its contributions to both engineering and biology. We briefly elaborate on methodological issues, review some of the most interesting findings, and discuss important open issues and promising avenues for future work.

Evolutionary computing
The Molecular Evolutionary Genetics Analysis (Mega) software implements many analytical methods and tools for phylogenomics and phylomedicine. Here, we report a transformation of Mega to enable cross-platform use on Microsoft Windows and Linux operating systems. Mega X does not require virtualization or emulation software and provides a uniform user experience across platforms. Mega X has additionally been upgraded to use multiple computing cores for many molecular evolutionary analyses. Mega X is available in two interfaces (graphical and command line) and can be downloaded from www.megasoftware.net free of charge.

Efficient relevance estimation and value calibration of evolutionary algorithm parameters
Calibrating the parameters of an evolutionary algorithm (EA) is a laborious task. The highly stochastic nature of an EA typically leads to a high variance of the measurements. The standard statistical method to reduce variance is measurement replication, i.e., averaging over several test runs with identical parameter settings. The computational cost of measurement replication scales with the variance and is often too high to allow for results of statistical significance. In this paper we study an alternative: the REVAC method for Relevance Estimation and Value Calibration, and we investigate how different levels of measurement replication influence the cost and quality of its calibration results. Two sets ofof experiments are reported: calibrating a genetic algorithm on standard benchmark problems, and calibrating a complex simulation in evolutionary agent-based economics. We find that measurement replication is not essential to REVAC, which emerges as a strong and efficient alternative to existing statistical methods.

What is an evolutionary algorithm?
Graph coloring with adaptive evolutionary algorithms
Evolutionary algorithms with on-the-fly population size adjustment
Evolutionary algorithm parameters and methods to tune them
DONE