Relative entropy inverse reinforcement learning
We consider the problem of imitation learning where the examples, demonstrated by an expert, cover only a small part of a large state space. Inverse Reinforcement Learning (IRL) provides an ecient tool for generalizing the demonstration, based on the assumption that the expert is optimally acting in a Markov Decision Process (MDP). Most of the past work on IRL requires that a (near)optimal policy can be computed for dierent reward functions. However, this requirement can hardly be satised in systems with a large, or continuous, state space. In this paper, we propose a model-free IRL algorithm, where the relative entropy between the empirical distribution of the state-action trajectories under a baseline policy and their distribution under the learned policy is minimized by stochastic gradient descent. We compare this new approach to well-known IRL algorithms using learned MDP models. Empirical results on simulated car racing, gridworld and ball-in-a-cup problems show that our approach is able to learn good policies from a small number of demonstrations.

A self-supervised learning system for object detection using physics simulation and multi-view pose estimation
Progress has been achieved recently in object detection given advancements in deep learning. Nevertheless, such tools typically require a large amount of training data and significant manual effort to label objects. This limits their applicability in robotics, where solutions must scale to a large number of objects and variety of conditions. This work proposes an autonomous process for training a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) for object detection and pose estimation in robotic setups. The focus is on detecting objects placed in cluttered, tight environments, such as a shelf with multiple objects. In particular, given access to 3D object models, several aspects of the environment are physically simulated. The models are placed in physically realistic poses with respect to their environment to generate a labeled synthetic dataset. To further improve object detection, the network self-trains over real images that are labeled using a robust multi-view pose estimation process. The proposed training process is evaluated on several existing datasets and on a dataset collected for this paper with a Motoman robotic arm. Results show that the proposed approach outperforms popular training processes relying on synthetic — but not physically realistic — data and manual annotation. The key contributions are the incorporation of physical reasoning in the synthetic data generation process and the automation of the annotation process over real images.

Learning to manipulate unknown objects in clutter by reinforcement

 
 We present a fully autonomous robotic system for grasping objects in dense clutter. The objects are unknown and have arbitrary shapes. Therefore, we cannot rely on prior models. Instead, the robot learns online, from scratch, to manipulate the objects by trial and error. Grasping objects in clutter is significantly harder than grasping isolated objects, because the robot needs to push and move objects around in order to create sufficient space for the fingers. These pre-grasping actions do not have an immediate utility, and may result in unnecessary delays. The utility of a pre-grasping action can be measured only by looking at the complete chain of consecutive actions and effects. This is a sequential decision-making problem that can be cast in the reinforcement learning framework. We solve this problem by learning the stochastic transitions between the observed states, using nonparametric density estimation. The learned transition function is used only for re-calculating the values of the executed actions in the observed states, with different policies. Values of new state-actions are obtained by regressing the values of the executed actions. The state of the system at a given time is a depth (3D) image of the scene. We use spectral clustering for detecting the different objects in the image. The performance of our system is assessed on a robot with real-world objects.
 


Learning strategies in table tennis using inverse reinforcement learning
Fast model identification via physics engines for data-efficient policy search
This paper presents a method for identifying mechanical parameters of robots or objects, such as their mass and friction coefficients. Key features are the use of off-the-shelf physics engines and the adaptation of a Bayesian optimization technique towards minimizing the number of real-world experiments needed for model-based reinforcement learning. The proposed framework reproduces in a physics engine experiments performed on a real robot and optimizes the model's mechanical parameters so as to match real-world trajectories. The optimized model is then used for learning a policy in simulation, before real-world deployment. It is well understood, however, that it is hard to exactly reproduce real trajectories in simulation. Moreover, a near-optimal policy can be frequently found with an imperfect model. Therefore, this work proposes a strategy for identifying a model that is just good enough to approximate the value of a locally optimal policy with a certain confidence, instead of wasting effort on identifying the most accurate model. Evaluations, performed both in simulation and on a real robotic manipulation task, indicate that the proposed strategy results in an overall time-efficient, integrated model identification and learning solution, which significantly improves the data-efficiency of existing policy search algorithms.

Dipn: Deep interaction prediction network with application to clutter removal
We propose a Deep Interaction Prediction Network (DIPN) for learning to predict complex interactions that ensue as a robot end-effector pushes multiple objects, whose physical properties, including size, shape, mass, and friction coefficients may be unknown a priori. DIPN "imagines" the effect of a push action and generates an accurate synthetic image of the predicted outcome. DIPN is shown to be sample efficient when trained in simulation or with a real robotic system. The high accuracy of DIPN allows direct integration with a grasp network, yielding a robotic manipulation system capable of executing challenging clutter removal tasks while being trained in a fully self-supervised manner. The overall network demonstrates intelligent behavior in selecting proper actions between push and grasp for completing clutter removal tasks and significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art. Remarkably, DIPN achieves even better performance on the real robotic hardware system than in simulation.

Grounding spatial relations for outdoor robot navigation
We propose a language-driven navigation approach for commanding mobile robots in outdoor environments. We consider unknown environments that contain previously unseen objects. The proposed approach aims at making interactions in human-robot teams natural. Robots receive from human teammates commands in natural language, such as “Navigate around the building to the car left of the fire hydrant and near the tree”. A robot needs first to classify its surrounding objects into categories, using images obtained from its sensors. The result of this classification is a map of the environment, where each object is given a list of semantic labels, such as “tree” and “car”, with varying degrees of confidence. Then, the robot needs to ground the nouns in the command. Grounding, the main focus of this paper, is mapping each noun in the command into a physical object in the environment. We use a probabilistic model for interpreting the spatial relations, such as “left of” and “near”. The model is learned from examples provided by humans. For each noun in the command, a distribution on the objects in the environment is computed by combining spatial constraints with a prior given as the semantic classifier's confidence values. The robot needs also to ground the navigation mode specified in the command, such as “navigate quickly” and “navigate covertly”, as a cost map. The cost map is also learned from examples, using Inverse Optimal Control (IOC). The cost map and the grounded goal are used to generate a path for the robot. This approach is evaluated on a robot in a real-world environment. Our experiments clearly show that the proposed approach is efficient for commanding outdoor robots.

Cost-Sensitive Active Learning With Lookahead: Optimizing Field Surveys for Remote Sensing Data Classification
Active learning typically aims at minimizing the number of labeled samples to be included in the training set to reach a certain level of classification accuracy. Standard methods do not usually take into account the real annotation procedures and implicitly assume that all samples require the same effort to be labeled. Here, we consider the case where the cost associated with the annotation of a given sample depends on the previously labeled samples. In general, this is the case when annotating a queried sample is an action that changes the state of a dynamic system, and the cost is a function of the state of the system. In order to minimize the total annotation cost, the active sample selection problem is addressed in the framework of a Markov decision process, which allows one to plan the next labeling action on the basis of an expected long-term cumulative reward. This framework allows us to address the problem of optimizing the collection of labeled samples by field surveys for the classification of remote sensing data. The proposed method is applied to the ground sample collection for tree species classification using airborne hyperspectral images. Experiments carried out in the context of a real case study on forest inventory show the effectiveness of the proposed method.

Visual foresight trees for object retrieval from clutter with nonprehensile rearrangement
This letter considers the problem of retrieving an object from many tightly packed objects using a combination of robotic pushing and grasping actions. Object retrieval in dense clutter is an important skill for robots to operate in households and everyday environments effectively. The proposed solution, Visual Foresight Tree (VFT), intelligently rearranges the clutter surrounding a target object so that it can be grasped easily. Rearrangement with nested nonprehensile actions is challenging as it requires predicting complex object interactions in a combinatorially large configuration space of multiple objects. We first show that a deep neural network can be trained to accurately predict the poses of the packed objects when the robot pushes one of them. The predictive network provides visual foresight and is used in a tree search as a state transition function in the space of scene images. The tree search returns a sequence of consecutive push actions yielding the best arrangement of the clutter for grasping the target object. Experiments in simulation and using a real robot and objects show that the proposed approach outperforms model-free techniques as well as model-based myopic methods both in terms of success rates and the number of executed actions, on several challenging tasks. A video introducing VFT, with robot experiments, is accessible at https://youtu.be/7cL-hmgvyec. The full source code is available at https://github.com/arc-l/vft.

Exact dynamic programming for decentralized POMDPs with lossless policy compression
High dimensionality of belief space in DEC-POMDPs is one of the major causes that makes the optimal joint policy computation intractable. The belief state for a given agent is a probability distribution over the system states and the policies of other agents. Belief compression is an efficient POMDP approach that speeds up planning algorithms by projecting the belief state space to a low-dimensional one. In this paper, we introduce a new method for solving DEC-POMDP problems, based on the compression of the policy belief space. The reduced policy space contains sequences of actions and observations that are linearly independent. We tested our approach on two benchmark problems, and the preliminary results confirm that Dynamic Programming algorithm scales up better when the policy belief is compressed.

Towards robust product packing with a minimalistic end-effector
Advances in sensor technologies, object detection algorithms, planning frameworks and hardware designs have motivated the deployment of robots in warehouse automation. A variety of such applications, like order fulfillment or packing tasks, require picking objects from unstructured piles and carefully arranging them in bins or containers. Desirable solutions need to be low-cost, easily deployable and controllable, making minimalistic hardware choices desirable. The challenge in designing an effective solution to this problem relates to appropriately integrating multiple components, so as to achieve a robust pipeline that minimizes failure conditions. The current work proposes a complete pipeline for solving such packing tasks, given access only to RGB-D data and a single robot arm with a vacuum-based end-effector, which is also used as a pushing finger. To achieve the desired level of robustness, three key manipulation primitives are identified, which take advantage of the environment and simple operations to successfully pack multiple cubic objects. The overall approach is demonstrated to be robust to execution and perception errors. The impact of each manipulation primitive is evaluated by considering different versions of the proposed pipeline, which incrementally introduce reasoning about object poses and corrective manipulation actions.

Vision-driven compliant manipulation for reliable, high-precision assembly tasks
Highly constrained manipulation tasks continue to be challenging for autonomous robots as they require high levels of precision, typically less than 1mm, which is often incompatible with what can be achieved by traditional perception systems. This paper demonstrates that the combination of state-of-the-art object tracking with passively adaptive mechanical hardware can be leveraged to complete precision manipulation tasks with tight, industrially-relevant tolerances (0.25mm). The proposed control method closes the loop through vision by tracking the relative 6D pose of objects in the relevant workspace. It adjusts the control reference of both the compliant manipulator and the hand to complete object insertion tasks via within-hand manipulation. Contrary to previous efforts for insertion, our method does not require expensive force sensors, precision manipulators, or time-consuming, online learning, which is data hungry. Instead, this effort leverages mechanical compliance and utilizes an object agnostic manipulation model of the hand learned offline, off-the-shelf motion planning, and an RGBD-based object tracker trained solely with synthetic data. These features allow the proposed system to easily generalize and transfer to new tasks and environments. This paper describes in detail the system components and showcases its efficacy with extensive experiments involving tight tolerance peg-in-hole insertion tasks of various geometries as well as open-world constrained placement tasks.

Learning robot grasping from 3-d images with markov random fields
Learning to grasp novel objects is an essential skill for robots operating in unstructured environments. We therefore propose a probabilistic approach for learning to grasp. In particular, we learn a function that predicts the success probability of grasps performed on surface points of a given object. Our approach is based on Markov Random Fields (MRF), and motivated by the fact that points that are geometrically close to each other tend to have similar grasp success probabilities. The MRF approach is successfully tested in simulation, and on a real robot using 3-D scans of various types of objects. The empirical results show a significant improvement over methods that do not utilize the smoothness assumption and classify each point separately from the others.

Hilbert space embeddings of POMDPs
A nonparametric approach for policy learning for POMDPs is proposed. The approach represents distributions over the states, observations, and actions as embeddings in feature spaces, which are reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces. Distributions over states given the observations are obtained by applying the kernel Bayes' rule to these distribution embeddings. Policies and value functions are defined on the feature space over states, which leads to a feature space expression for the Bellman equation. Value iteration may then be used to estimate the optimal value function and associated policy. Experimental results confirm that the correct policy is learned using the feature space representation.

Improving 6d pose estimation of objects in clutter via physics-aware monte carlo tree search
This work proposes a process for efficiently searching over combinations of individual object 6D pose hypotheses in cluttered scenes, especially in cases involving occlusions and objects resting on each other. The initial set of candidate object poses is generated from state-of-the-art object detection and global point cloud registration techniques. The best scored pose per object by using these techniques may not be accurate due to overlaps and occlusions. Nevertheless, experimental indications provided in this work show that object poses with lower ranks may be closer to the real poses than ones with high ranks according to registration techniques. This motivates a global optimization process for improving these poses by taking into account scene-level physical interactions between objects. It also implies that the Cartesian product of candidate poses for interacting objects must be searched so as to identify the best scene-level hypothesis. To perform the search efficiently, the candidate poses for each object are clustered so as to reduce their number but still keep a sufficient diversity. Then, searching over the combinations of candidate object poses is performed through a Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) process that uses the similarity between the observed depth image of the scene and a rendering of the scene given the hypothesized pose as a score that guides the search procedure. MCTS handles in a principled way the tradeoff between fine-tuning the most promising poses and exploring new ones, by using the Upper Confidence Bound (UCB) technique. Experimental results indicate that this process is able to quickly identify in cluttered scenes physically-consistent object poses that are significantly closer to ground truth compared to poses found by point cloud registration methods.

Anticipatory action selection for human–robot table tennis
Toward mobile robots reasoning like humans

 
 Robots are increasingly becoming key players in human-robot teams. To become effective teammates, robots must possess profound understanding of an environment, be able to reason about the desired commands and goals within a specific context, and be able to communicate with human teammates in a clear and natural way. To address these challenges, we have developed an intelligence architecture that combines cognitive components to carry out high-level cognitive tasks, semantic perception to label regions in the world, and a natural language component to reason about the command and its relationship to the objects in the world. This paper describes recent developments using this architecture on a fielded mobile robot platform operating in unknown urban environments. We report a summary of extensive outdoor experiments; the results suggest that a multidisciplinary approach to robotics has the potential to create competent human-robot teams.
 


Task-driven perception and manipulation for constrained placement of unknown objects
Recent progress in robotic manipulation has dealt with the case of previously unknown objects in the context of relatively simple tasks, such as bin-picking. Existing methods for more constrained problems, however, such as deliberate placement in a tight region, depend more critically on shape information to achieve safe execution. This work deals with pick-and-constrained placement of objects without access to geometric models. The objective is to pick an object and place it safely inside a desired goal region without any collisions, while minimizing the time and the sensing operations required to complete the task. An algorithmic framework is proposed for this purpose, which performs manipulation planning simultaneously over a conservative and an optimistic estimate of the object’s volume. The conservative estimate ensures that the manipulation is safe while the optimistic estimate guides the sensor-based manipulation process when no solution can be found for the conservative estimate. To maintain these estimates and dynamically update them during manipulation, objects are represented by a simple volumetric representation, which stores sets of occupied and unseen voxels. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is demonstrated by developing a robotic system that picks a previously unseen object from a table-top and places it in a constrained space. The system comprises of a dual-arm manipulator with heterogeneous end-effectors and leverages hand-offs as a re-grasping strategy. Real-world experiments show that straightforward pick-sense-and-place alternatives frequently fail to solve pick-and-constrained placement problems. The proposed pipeline, however, achieves more than 95% success rate and faster execution times as evaluated over multiple physical experiments.

Robust 6d object pose estimation with stochastic congruent sets
Object pose estimation is frequently achieved by first segmenting an RGB image and then, given depth data, registering the corresponding point cloud segment against the object's 3D model. Despite the progress due to CNNs, semantic segmentation output can be noisy, especially when the CNN is only trained on synthetic data. This causes registration methods to fail in estimating a good object pose. This work proposes a novel stochastic optimization process that treats the segmentation output of CNNs as a confidence probability. The algorithm, called Stochastic Congruent Sets (StoCS), samples pointsets on the point cloud according to the soft segmentation distribution and so as to agree with the object's known geometry. The pointsets are then matched to congruent sets on the 3D object model to generate pose estimates. StoCS is shown to be robust on an APC dataset, despite the fact the CNN is trained only on synthetic data. In the YCB dataset, StoCS outperforms a recent network for 6D pose estimation and alternative pointset matching techniques.

Structured apprenticeship learning
DONE