Searching and mining trillions of time series subsequences under dynamic time warping
Most time series data mining algorithms use similarity search as a core subroutine, and thus the time taken for similarity search is the bottleneck for virtually all time series data mining algorithms. The difficulty of scaling search to large datasets largely explains why most academic work on time series data mining has plateaued at considering a few millions of time series objects, while much of industry and science sits on billions of time series objects waiting to be explored. In this work we show that by using a combination of four novel ideas we can search and mine truly massive time series for the first time. We demonstrate the following extremely unintuitive fact; in large datasets we can exactly search under DTW much more quickly than the current state-of-the-art Euclidean distance search algorithms. We demonstrate our work on the largest set of time series experiments ever attempted. In particular, the largest dataset we consider is larger than the combined size of all of the time series datasets considered in all data mining papers ever published. We show that our ideas allow us to solve higher-level time series data mining problem such as motif discovery and clustering at scales that would otherwise be untenable. In addition to mining massive datasets, we will show that our ideas also have implications for real-time monitoring of data streams, allowing us to handle much faster arrival rates and/or use cheaper and lower powered devices than are currently possible.

Experimental comparison of representation methods and distance measures for time series data
The UCR time series classification archive
In 2002, the UCR time series classification archive was first released with sixteen datasets. It gradually expanded, until 2015 when it increased in size from 45 datasets to 85 datasets. In October 2018 more datasets were added, bringing the total to 128. The new archive contains a wide range of problems, including variable length series, but it still only contains univariate time series classification problems. One of the motivations for introducing the archive was to encourage researchers to perform a more rigorous evaluation of newly proposed time series classification (TSC) algorithms. It has worked: most recent research into TSC uses all 85 datasets to evaluate algorithmic advances. Research into multivariate time series classification, where more than one series are associated with each class label, is in a position where univariate TSC research was a decade ago. Algorithms are evaluated using very few datasets and claims of improvement are not based on statistical comparisons. We aim to address this problem by forming the first iteration of the MTSC archive, to be hosted at the website this http URL. Like the univariate archive, this formulation was a collaborative effort between researchers at the University of East Anglia (UEA) and the University of California, Riverside (UCR). The 2018 vintage consists of 30 datasets with a wide range of cases, dimensions and series lengths. For this first iteration of the archive we format all data to be of equal length, include no series with missing data and provide train/test splits.

Matrix profile I: all pairs similarity joins for time series: a unifying view that includes motifs, discords and shapelets
The all-pairs-similarity-search (or similarity join) problem has been extensively studied for text and a handful of other datatypes. However, surprisingly little progress has been made on similarity joins for time series subsequences. The lack of progress probably stems from the daunting nature of the problem. For even modest sized datasets the obvious nested-loop algorithm can take months, and the typical speed-up techniques in this domain (i.e., indexing, lower-bounding, triangular-inequality pruning and early abandoning) at best produce one or two orders of magnitude speedup. In this work we introduce a novel scalable algorithm for time series subsequence all-pairs-similarity-search. For exceptionally large datasets, the algorithm can be trivially cast as an anytime algorithm and produce high-quality approximate solutions in reasonable time. The exact similarity join algorithm computes the answer to the time series motif and time series discord problem as a side-effect, and our algorithm incidentally provides the fastest known algorithm for both these extensively-studied problems. We demonstrate the utility of our ideas for two time series data mining problems, including motif discovery and novelty discovery.

Exact discovery of time series motifs
Time series motifs are pairs of individual time series, or subsequences of a longer time series, which are very similar to each other. As with their discrete analogues in computational biology, this similarity hints at structure which has been conserved for some reason and may therefore be of interest. Since the formalism of time series motifs in 2002, dozens of researchers have used them for diverse applications in many different domains. Because the obvious algorithm for computing motifs is quadratic in the number of items, more than a dozen approximate algorithms to discover motifs have been proposed in the literature. In this work, for the first time, we show a tractable exact algorithm to find time series motifs. As we shall show through extensive experiments, our algorithm is up to three orders of magnitude faster than brute-force search in large datasets. We further show that our algorithm is fast enough to be used as a subroutine in higher level data mining algorithms for anytime classification, near-duplicate detection and summarization, and we consider detailed case studies in domains as diverse as electroencephalograph interpretation and entomological telemetry data mining.

Curse of dimensionality.
We present two algorithms for the approximate nearest neighbor problem in high dimensional spaces. For data sets of size n living in IR d , the algorithms require space that is only polynomial in n and d , while achieving query times that are sub-linear in n and polynomial in d . We also show applications to other high-dimensional geometric problems, such as the approximate minimum spanning tree.

Logical-shapelets: an expressive primitive for time series classification
Time series shapelets are small, local patterns in a time series that are highly predictive of a class and are thus very useful features for building classifiers and for certain visualization and summarization tasks. While shapelets were introduced only recently, they have already seen significant adoption and extension in the community. Despite their immense potential as a data mining primitive, there are two important limitations of shapelets. First, their expressiveness is limited to simple binary presence/absence questions. Second, even though shapelets are computed offline, the time taken to compute them is significant. In this work, we address the latter problem by introducing a novel algorithm that finds shapelets in less time than current methods by an order of magnitude. Our algorithm is based on intelligent caching and reuse of computations, and the admissible pruning of the search space. Because our algorithm is so fast, it creates an opportunity to consider more expressive shapelet queries. In particular, we show for the first time an augmented shapelet representation that distinguishes the data based on conjunctions or disjunctions of shapelets. We call our novel representation Logical-Shapelets. We demonstrate the efficiency of our approach on the classic benchmark datasets used for these problems, and show several case studies where logical shapelets significantly outperform the original shapelet representation and other time series classification techniques. We demonstrate the utility of our ideas in domains as diverse as gesture recognition, robotics, and biometrics.

Debot: Twitter bot detection via warped correlation.
We develop a warped correlation finder to identify correlated user accounts in social media websites such as Twitter. The key observation is that humans cannot be highly synchronous for a long duration, thus, highly synchronous user accounts are most likely bots. Existing bot detection methods are mostly supervised, which requires a large amount of labeled data to train, and do not consider cross-user features. In contrast, our bot detection system works on activity correlation without requiring labeled data. We develop a novel lag-sensitive hashing technique to cluster user accounts into correlated sets in near real-time. Our method, named DeBot, detects thousands of bots per day with a 94% precision and generates reports online everyday. In September 2016, DeBot has accumulated about 544,868 unique bots in the previous one year. We compare our detection technique with per-user techniques and with Twitter's suspension system. We observe that some bots can avoid Twitter's suspension mechanism and remain active for months, and, more alarmingly, we show that DeBot detects bots at a rate higher than the rate Twitter is suspending them.

Addressing big data time series: Mining trillions of time series subsequences under dynamic time warping
Most time series data mining algorithms use similarity search as a core subroutine, and thus the time taken for similarity search is the bottleneck for virtually all time series data mining algorithms, including classification, clustering, motif discovery, anomaly detection, and so on. The difficulty of scaling a search to large datasets explains to a great extent why most academic work on time series data mining has plateaued at considering a few millions of time series objects, while much of industry and science sits on billions of time series objects waiting to be explored. In this work we show that by using a combination of four novel ideas we can search and mine massive time series for the first time. We demonstrate the following unintuitive fact: in large datasets we can exactly search under Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) much more quickly than the current state-of-the-art Euclidean distance search algorithms. We demonstrate our work on the largest set of time series experiments ever attempted. In particular, the largest dataset we consider is larger than the combined size of all of the time series datasets considered in all data mining papers ever published. We explain how our ideas allow us to solve higher-level time series data mining problems such as motif discovery and clustering at scales that would otherwise be untenable. Moreover, we show how our ideas allow us to efficiently support the uniform scaling distance measure, a measure whose utility seems to be underappreciated, but which we demonstrate here. In addition to mining massive datasets with up to one trillion datapoints, we will show that our ideas also have implications for real-time monitoring of data streams, allowing us to handle much faster arrival rates and/or use cheaper and lower powered devices than are currently possible.

Clustering time series using unsupervised-shapelets
Time series clustering has become an increasingly important research topic over the past decade. Most existing methods for time series clustering rely on distances calculated from the entire raw data using the Euclidean distance or Dynamic Time Warping distance as the distance measure. However, the presence of significant noise, dropouts, or extraneous data can greatly limit the accuracy of clustering in this domain. Moreover, for most real world problems, we cannot expect objects from the same class to be equal in length. As a consequence, most work on time series clustering only considers the clustering of individual time series "behaviors," e.g., individual heart beats or individual gait cycles, and contrives the time series in some way to make them all equal in length. However, contriving the data in such a way is often a harder problem than the clustering itself. In this work, we show that by using only some local patterns and deliberately ignoring the rest of the data, we can mitigate the above problems and cluster time series of different lengths, i.e., cluster one heartbeat with multiple heartbeats. To achieve this we exploit and extend a recently introduced concept in time series data mining called shapelets. Unlike existing work, our work demonstrates for the first time the unintuitive fact that shapelets can be learned from unlabeled time series. We show, with extensive empirical evaluation in diverse domains, that our method is more accurate than existing methods. Moreover, in addition to accurate clustering results, we show that our work also has the potential to give insights into the domains to which it is applied.

Matrix profile ii: Exploiting a novel algorithm and gpus to break the one hundred million barrier for time series motifs and joins
Time series motifs have been in the literature for about fifteen years, but have only recently begun to receive significant attention in the research community. This is perhaps due to the growing realization that they implicitly offer solutions to a host of time series problems, including rule discovery, anomaly detection, density estimation, semantic segmentation, etc. Recent work has improved the scalability to the point where exact motifs can be computed on datasets with up to a million data points in tenable time. However, in some domains, for example seismology, there is an insatiable need to address even larger datasets. In this work we show that a combination of a novel algorithm and a high-performance GPU allows us to significantly improve the scalability of motif discovery. We demonstrate the scalability of our ideas by finding the full set of exact motifs on a dataset with one hundred million subsequences, by far the largest dataset ever mined for time series motifs. Furthermore, we demonstrate that our algorithm can produce actionable insights in seismology and other domains.

The UCR time series classification archive
In 2002, the UCR time series classification archive was first released with sixteen datasets. It gradually expanded, until 2015 when it increased in size from 45 datasets to 85 datasets. In October 2018 more datasets were added, bringing the total to 128. The new archive contains a wide range of problems, including variable length series, but it still only contains univariate time series classification problems. One of the motivations for introducing the archive was to encourage researchers to perform a more rigorous evaluation of newly proposed time series classification (TSC) algorithms. It has worked: most recent research into TSC uses all 85 datasets to evaluate algorithmic advances. Research into multivariate time series classification, where more than one series are associated with each class label, is in a position where univariate TSC research was a decade ago. Algorithms are evaluated using very few datasets and claims of improvement are not based on statistical comparisons. We aim to address this problem by forming the first iteration of the MTSC archive, to be hosted at the website this http URL. Like the univariate archive, this formulation was a collaborative effort between researchers at the University of East Anglia (UEA) and the University of California, Riverside (UCR). The 2018 vintage consists of 30 datasets with a wide range of cases, dimensions and series lengths. For this first iteration of the archive we format all data to be of equal length, include no series with missing data and provide train/test splits.

Logmine: Fast pattern recognition for log analytics
Modern engineering incorporates smart technologies in all aspects of our lives. Smart technologies are generating terabytes of log messages every day to report their status. It is crucial to analyze these log messages and present usable information (e.g. patterns) to administrators, so that they can manage and monitor these technologies. Patterns minimally represent large groups of log messages and enable the administrators to do further analysis, such as anomaly detection and event prediction. Although patterns exist commonly in automated log messages, recognizing them in massive set of log messages from heterogeneous sources without any prior information is a significant undertaking. We propose a method, named LogMine, that extracts high quality patterns for a given set of log messages. Our method is fast, memory efficient, accurate, and scalable. LogMine is implemented in map-reduce framework for distributed platforms to process millions of log messages in seconds. LogMine is a robust method that works for heterogeneous log messages generated in a wide variety of systems. Our method exploits algorithmic techniques to minimize the computational overhead based on the fact that log messages are always automatically generated. We evaluate the performance of LogMine on massive sets of log messages generated in industrial applications. LogMine has successfully generated patterns which are as good as the patterns generated by exact and unscalable method, while achieving a 500× speedup. Finally, we describe three applications of the patterns generated by LogMine in monitoring large scale industrial systems.

Online discovery and maintenance of time series motifs
The detection of repeated subsequences, time series motifs, is a problem which has been shown to have great utility for several higher-level data mining algorithms, including classification, clustering, segmentation, forecasting, and rule discovery. In recent years there has been significant research effort spent on efficiently discovering these motifs in static offline databases. However, for many domains, the inherent streaming nature of time series demands online discovery and maintenance of time series motifs. In this paper, we develop the first online motif discovery algorithm which monitors and maintains motifs exactly in real time over the most recent history of a stream. Our algorithm has a worst-case update time which is linear to the window size and is extendible to maintain more complex pattern structures. In contrast, the current offline algorithms either need significant update time or require very costly pre-processing steps which online algorithms simply cannot afford. Our core ideas allow useful extensions of our algorithm to deal with arbitrary data rates and discovering multidimensional motifs. We demonstrate the utility of our algorithms with a variety of case studies in the domains of robotics, acoustic monitoring and online compression.

Extracting optimal performance from dynamic time warping
Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) is a distance measure that compares two time series after optimally aligning them. DTW is being used for decades in thousands of academic and industrial projects despite the very expensive computational complexity, O(n2). These applications include data mining, image processing, signal processing, robotics and computer graphics among many others. In spite of all this research effort, there are many myths and misunderstanding about DTW in the literature, for example "it is too slow to be useful" or "the warping window size does not matter much." In this tutorial, we correct these misunderstandings and we summarize the research efforts in optimizing both the efficiency and effectiveness of both the basic DTW algorithm, and of the higher-level algorithms that exploit DTW such as similarity search, clustering and classification. We will discuss variants of DTW such as constrained DTW, multidimensional DTW and asynchronous DTW, and optimization techniques such as lower bounding, early abandoning, run-length encoding, bounded approximation and hardware optimization. We will discuss a multitude of application areas including physiological monitoring, social media mining, activity recognition and animal sound processing. The optimization techniques are generalizable to other domains on various data types and problems.

Fast approximate correlation for massive time-series data
We consider the problem of computing all-pair correlations in a warehouse containing a large number (e.g., tens of thousands) of time-series (or, signals). The problem arises in automatic discovery of patterns and anomalies in data intensive applications such as data center management, environmental monitoring, and scientific experiments. However, with existing techniques, solving the problem for a large stream warehouse is extremely expensive, due to the problem's inherent quadratic I/O and CPU complexities. We propose novel algorithms, based on Discrete Fourier Transformation (DFT) and graph partitioning, to reduce the end-to-end response time of an all-pair correlation query. To minimize I/O cost, we partition a massive set of input signals into smaller batches such that caching the signals one batch at a time maximizes data reuse and minimizes disk I/O. To reduce CPU cost, we propose two approximation algorithms. Our first algorithm efficiently computes approximate correlation coefficients of similar signal pairs within a given error bound. The second algorithm efficiently identifies, without any false positives or negatives, all signal pairs with correlations above a given threshold. For many real applications, our approximate solutions are as useful as corresponding exact solutions, due to our strict error guarantees. However, compared to the state-of-the-art exact algorithms, our algorithms are up to 17x faster for several real datasets.

Accelerating dynamic time warping subsequence search with GPUs and FPGAs
Many time series data mining problems require subsequence similarity search as a subroutine. Dozens of similarity/distance measures have been proposed in the last decade and there is increasing evidence that Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) is the best measure across a wide range of domains. Given DTW’s usefulness and ubiquity, there has been a large community-wide effort to mitigate its relative lethargy. Proposed speedup techniques include early abandoning strategies, lower-bound based pruning, indexing and embedding. In this work we argue that we are now close to exhausting all possible speedup from software, and that we must turn to hardware-based solutions. With this motivation, we investigate both GPU (Graphics Processing Unit) and FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array) based acceleration of subsequence similarity search under the DTW measure. As we shall show, our novel algorithms allow GPUs to achieve two orders of magnitude speedup and FPGAs to produce four orders of magnitude speedup. We conduct detailed case studies on the classification of astronomical observations and demonstrate that our ideas allow us to tackle problems that would be untenable otherwise.

Analyzing the Great Firewall of China over space and time
Abstract A nation-scale firewall, colloquially referred to as the “Great Firewall of China,” implements many different types of censorship and content filtering to control China’s Internet traffic. Past work has shown that the firewall occasionally fails. In other words, sometimes clients in China are able to reach blacklisted servers outside of China. This phenomenon has not yet been characterized because it is infeasible to find a large and geographically diverse set of clients in China from which to test connectivity. In this paper, we overcome this challenge by using a hybrid idle scan technique that is able to measure connectivity between a remote client and an arbitrary server, neither of which are under the control of the researcher performing measurements. In addition to hybrid idle scans, we present and employ a novel side channel in the Linux kernel’s SYN backlog. We show that both techniques are practical by measuring the reachability of the Tor network which is known to be blocked in China. Our measurements reveal that failures in the firewall occur throughout the entire country without any conspicuous geographical patterns.We give some evidence that routing plays a role, but other factors (such as how the GFW maintains its list of IP/port pairs to block) may also be important.

Time series joins, motifs, discords and shapelets: a unifying view that exploits the matrix profile
Enumeration of time series motifs of all lengths
DONE