Approximation algorithms for TSP with neighborhoods in the plane
Reconfigurations in graphs and grids
Let G be a connected graph, and let V and V ′ two n-element subsets of its vertex set V(G). Imagine that we place a chip at each element of V and we want to move them into the positions of V ′ (V and V ′ may have common elements). A move is defined as shifting a chip from v1 to v2 (v1,v2 ∈ V(G)) on a path formed by edges of G so that no intermediate vertices are occupied. We give upper and lower bounds on the number of moves that are necessary, and analyze the computational complexity of this problem under various assumptions: labeled versus unlabeled chips, arbitrary graphs versus the case when the graph is the rectangular (infinite) planar grid, etc. We provide hardness and inapproximability results for several variants of the problem. We also give a linear-time algorithm which performs an optimal (minimum) number of moves for the unlabeled version in a tree, and a constant-ratio approximation algorithm for the unlabeled version in a graph. The graph algorithm uses the tree algorithm as a subroutine.

Pushing squares around
We study dynamic self-reconfiguration of modular metamorphic systems. We guarantee the feasibility of motion planning in a rectangular model consisting of square modules that are allowed to slide along or rotate about one another. That is, we show that any two connected configurations of the same number of modules can be transformed into each other by a sequence of moves so that all intermediate configurations are connected. This settles a conjecture formulated in [6].

Generating small combinatorial test suites to cover input-output relationships
In this paper, we consider a problem that arises in black box testing: generating small test suites (i.e., sets of test cases) where the combinations that have to be covered are specified by input-output parameter relationships of a software system. That is, we only consider combinations of input parameters that affect an output parameter. We also do not assume that the input parameters have the same number of values. To solve this problem, we revisit the greedy algorithm for test generation and show that the size of the test suite it generates is within a logarithmic factor of the optimal. Unfortunately, the algorithm's main weaknesses are its time and space requirements for construction. To address this issue, we present a problem reduction technique that makes the greedy algorithm or any other test suite generation method more efficient if the reduction in size is significant.

Compatible geometric matchings
We prove that for every set of n pairwise disjoint line segments in the plane in general position, where n is even, there is another set of n segments such that the 2n segments form pairwise disjoint simple polygons in the plane. This settles in the affirmative the Disjoint Compatible Matching Conjecture by Aichholzer et al. (Comput. Geom. 42:617–626, 2009). The key tool in our proof is a novel subdivision of the free space around n disjoint line segments into at most n+1 convex cells such that the dual graph of the subdivision contains two edge-disjoint spanning trees.

On the largest empty axis-parallel box amidst n points
Bounds on the maximum multiplicity of some common geometric graphs
We obtain new lower and upper bounds for the maximum multiplicity of some weighted and, respectively, nonweighted common geometric graphs drawn on $n$ points in the plane in general position (with no three points collinear): perfect matchings, spanning trees, spanning cycles (tours), and triangulations. (i) We present a new lower bound construction for the maximum number of triangulations a set of $n$ points in general position can have. In particular, we show that a generalized double chain formed by two almost convex chains admits $\Omega (8.65^n)$ different triangulations. This improves the bound $\Omega (8.48^n)$ achieved by the previous best construction, the double zig-zag chain studied by Aichholzer et al. (ii) We obtain a new lower bound of $\Omega(12.00^n)$ for the number of noncrossing spanning trees of the double chain composed of two convex chains. The previous bound, $\Omega(10.42^n)$, stood unchanged for more than 10 years. (iii) Using a recent upper bound of $30^n$ for the number of triangu...

Motion planning for metamorphic systems: feasibility, decidability, and distributed reconfiguration
In this paper, we address a number of issues related to motion planning and analysis of rectangular metamorphic robotic systems. We first present a distributed algorithm for reconfiguration that applies to a relatively large subclass of configurations, called horizontally convex configurations. We then discuss several fundamental questions in the analysis of metamorphic systems. In particular, the following two questions are shown to be decidable: 1) whether a given set of motion rules maintains connectivity; 2) whether a goal configuration is reachable from a given initial configuration (at specified locations). In the general case in which each module has an internal state, the following is shown to be undecidable: given a set of motion rules, whether there exists a certain type of configuration called a uniform straight-chain configuration that yields a disconnected configuration.

On the Fréchet distance of a set of curves.
A curve is a continuous mapping ! " #%$%&(' )+* with " #%$-,.) and "0/1$ . As a measure for the resemblance of curves, Alt and Godau have considered the so-called Frechet distance 243 . Definition 1 Let 5 6 " #%"879&:';) $?#@$A7BC)>* be two curves. The Frechet distance, denoted 2D3FEG # = H , is defined as 2 3 EG # = H! I JLK M NPO Q RTS U VBWXQ Y?S Y Z V [ O Q RTS U VBWXQ \]S \GZ V ^`_ a bdc Q RTS UdV e >Egf!Eih]HjH>kl= EgmnEih]HjH e #

Planar sets with few empty convex polygons
A configuration of n points in general position in the plane is described which has less than 1.684n 2 empty triangles, less than 2.132n 2 empty convex quadrilaterals, less than 1.229n 2 empty convex pentagons and less than 0.298n 2 empty convex hexagons. This improves the constants from a previous construction given by Valtr.

On the chromatic number of some geometric type Kneser graphs
Binary space partitions for axis-parallel segments, rectangles, and hyperrectangles
Watchman tours for polygons with holes
Matching colored points in the plane: some new results
The traveling salesman problem for lines, balls, and planes
We revisit the traveling salesman problem with neighborhoods (TSPN) and propose several new approximation algorithms. These constitute either first approximations (for hyperplanes, lines, and balls in Rd, for d ⩾ 3) or improvements over previous approximations achievable in comparable times (for unit disks in the plane). (I) Given a set of n hyperplanes in Rd, a traveling salesman problem (TSP) tour whose length is at most O(1) times the optimal can be computed in O(n) time when d is constant. (II) Given a set of n lines in Rd, a TSP tour whose length is at most O(log 3n) times the optimal can be computed in polynomial time for all d. (III) Given a set of n unit balls in Rd, a TSP tour whose length is at most O(1) times the optimal can be computed in polynomial time when d is constant.

Formations for fast locomotion of metamorphic robotic systems
In this paper, we examine the problem of dynamic self-reconfiguration of a modular robotic system (frequently referred to as a self-reconfigurable or metamorphic system), to a formation aimed at reaching a specified target position as quickly as possible. We present a number of fast formations for both rectangular and hexagonal systems, and prove upper and lower bounds on the speed of locomotion. In particular, the formations presented here achieve a constant ratio guarantee on the time to reach a given target in the asymptotic sense.

On a matching problem in the plane
Minimum clique partition in unit disk graphs
Separating points by axis-parallel lines
We study the problem of separating n points in the plane, no two of which have the same x- or y-coordinate, using a minimum number of vertical and horizontal lines avoiding the points, so that each cell of the subdivision contains at most one point. Extending previous NP-hardness results due to Freimer et al. we prove that this problem and some variants of it are APX-hard. We give a 2-approximation algorithm for this problem, and a d-approximation algorithm for the d-dimensional variant, in which the points are to be separated using axis-parallel hyperplanes. To this end, we reduce the point separation problem to the rectangle stabbing problem studied by Gaur et al. Their approximation algorithm uses LP-rounding. We present an alternative LP-rounding procedure which also works for the rectangle stabbing problem. We show that the integrality ratio of the LP is exactly 2.

On the geometric dilation of closed curves, graphs, and point sets
DONE