Camera-based calibration techniques for seamless multiprojector displays
Multiprojector, large-scale displays are used in scientific visualization, virtual reality, and other visually intensive applications. In recent years, a number of camera-based computer vision techniques have been proposed to register the geometry and color of tiled projection-based display. These automated techniques use cameras to "calibrate" display geometry and photometry, computing per-projector corrective warps and intensity corrections that are necessary to produce seamless imagery across projector mosaics. These techniques replace the traditional labor-intensive manual alignment and maintenance steps, making such displays cost-effective, flexible, and accessible. In this paper, we present a survey of different camera-based geometric and photometric registration techniques reported in the literature to date. We discuss several techniques that have been proposed and demonstrated, each addressing particular display configurations and modes of operation. We overview each of these approaches and discuss their advantages and disadvantages. We examine techniques that address registration on both planar (video walls) and arbitrary display surfaces and photometric correction for different kinds of display surfaces. We conclude with a discussion of the remaining challenges and research opportunities for multiprojector displays

Color nonuniformity in projection-based displays: Analysis and solutions
Large-area displays made up of several projectors show significant variation in color. Here, we identify different projector parameters that cause the color variation and study their effects on the luminance and chrominance characteristics of the display. This work leads to the realization that luminance varies significantly within and across projectors, while chrominance variation is relatively small, especially across projectors of same model. To address this situation, we present a method to achieve luminance matching across all pixels of a multiprojector display that results in photometrically uniform displays. We use a camera as a measurement device for this purpose. Our method comprises a one-time calibration step that generates a per channel per projector luminance attenuation map (LAM), which is then used to correct any image projected on the display at interactive rates on commodity graphics hardware. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first effort to match luminance across all the pixels of a multiprojector display.

Achieving color uniformity across multi-projector displays
Large area tiled displays are gaining popularity for use in collaborative immersive virtual environments and scientific visualization. While recent work has addressed the issues of geometric registration, rendering architectures, and human interfaces, there has been relatively little work on photometric calibration in general, and photometric non-uniformity in particular. For example, as a result of differences in the photometric characteristics of projectors, the color and intensity of a large area display varies from place to place. Further, the imagery typically appears brighter at the regions of overlap between adjacent projectors. We analyze and classify the causes of photometric non-uniformity in a tiled display. We then propose a methodology for determining corrections designed to achieve uniformity, that can correct for the photometric variations across a tiled projector display in real time using per channel color look-up-tables (LUT).

Pixelflex2: A comprehensive, automatic, casually-aligned multi-projector display
We introduce PixelFlex2, our newest scalable wall-sized, multi-projector display system. For it, we had to solve most of the difficult problems left open by its predecessor, PixelFlex, a proof-of-concept demonstration driven by a large, multi-headed SGI graphics system. PixelFlex2 retains the achievements of PixelFlex (high-performance through single-pass rendering, single-pixel accuracy for geometric blending with only casual placement of projectors), while adding a) higher performance and scalability with a Linux PC-cluster, b) application support with either the distributed-rendering framework of Chromium or a performance-oriented, parallel-process framework supported by a proprietary API, c) improved geometric calibration by using a corner finder for feature detection, and d) photometric calibration with a single conventional camera using high dynamic range imaging techniques rather than an expensive photometer.

LAM: Luminance attenuation map for photometric uniformity in projection based displays
Large-area multi-projector displays show significant spatial variation in color, both within a single projector's field of view and across different projectors. Recent research in this area has shown that the color variation is primarily due to luminance variation. Luminance varies within a single projector's field of view, across different brands of projectors and with the variation in projector parameters. Luminance variation is also introduced by overlap between adjacent projectors. On the other hand, chrominance remains constant throughout a projector's field of view and varies little with the change in projector parameters, especially for projectors of the same brand. Hence, matching luminance response of all the pixels of a multi-projector display should help us to achieve photometric uniformity.In this paper, we present a method to do a per channel per pixel luminance matching. Our method consists of a one-time calibration procedure when a luminance attenuation map (LAM) is generated. This LAM is then used to correct any image to achieve photometric uniformity. In the one-time calibration step, we first use a camera to measure the per channel luminance response of a multi-projector display and find the pixel with the most "limited" luminance response. Then, for each projector, we generate a per channel LAM that assigns a weight to every pixel of the projector to scale the luminance response of that pixel to match with the most limited response. This LAM is then used to attenuate any image projected by the projector.This method can be extended to do the image correction in real time on traditional graphics pipeline by using alpha blending and color look-up-tables. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first effort to match luminance across all the pixels of a multi-projector display. Our results show that luminance matching can indeed achieve photometric uniformity.

Perceptual photometric seamlessness in projection-based tiled displays
Arguably, the most vexing problem remaining for multi-projector displays is that of photometric (brightness) seamlessness within and across different projectors. Researchers have strived for <i>strict photometric uniformity</i> that achieves identical response at every pixel of the display. However, this goal typically results in displays with severely compressed dynamic range and poor image quality.
 In this article, we show that strict photometric uniformity is not a requirement for achieving photometric seamlessness. We introduce a general goal for photometric seamlessness by defining it as an optimization problem, balancing <i>perceptual uniformity</i> with <i>display quality</i>. Based on this goal, we present a new method to achieve <i>perceptually seamless high quality displays</i>. We first derive a model that describes the photometric response of projection-based displays. Then we estimate the model parameters and modify them using perception-driven criteria. Finally, we use the graphics hardware to reproject the image computed using the modified model parameters by manipulating only the projector inputs at interactive rates.
 Our method has been successfully demonstrated on three different practical display systems at Argonne National Laboratory, made of 2 × 2 array of four projectors, 2 × 3 array of six, projectors, and 3 × 5 array of fifteen projectors. Our approach is efficient, automatic and scalable---requiring only a digital camera and a photometer. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach and system that addresses the photometric variation problem from a perceptual stand point and generates truly seamless displays with high dynamic range.

Fast high-resolution appearance editing using superimposed projections
We present a system that superimposes multiple projections onto an object of arbitrary shape and color to produce high-resolution appearance changes. Our system produces appearances at an improved resolution compared to prior works and can change appearances at near interactive rates. Three main components are central to our system. First, the problem of computing compensation images is formulated as a constrained optimization which yields high-resolution appearances. Second, decomposition of the target appearance into base and scale images enables fast swapping of appearances on the object by requiring the constrained optimization to be computed only once per object. Finally, to make high-quality appearance edits practical, an elliptical Gaussian is used to model projector pixels and their interaction between projectors. To the best of our knowledge, we build the first system that achieves high-resolution and high-quality appearance edits using multiple superimposed projectors on complex nonplanar colored objects. We demonstrate several appearance edits including specular lighting, subsurface scattering, inter-reflections, and color, texture, and geometry changes on objects with different shapes and colors.

Perception-based contrast enhancement of images
Study of contrast sensitivity of the human eye shows that our suprathreshold contrast sensitivity follows the Weber Law and, hence, increases proportionally with the increase in the mean local luminance. In this paper, we effectively apply this fact to design a contrast-enhancement method for images that improves the local image contrast by controlling the local image gradient with a single parameter. Unlike previous methods, we achieve this without explicit segmentation of the image, either in the spatial (multiscale) or frequency (multiresolution) domain. We pose the contrast enhancement as an optimization problem that maximizes the average local contrast of an image strictly constrained by a perceptual constraint derived directly from the Weber Law. We then propose a greedy heuristic, controlled by a single parameter, to approximate this optimization problem.

Color seamlessness in multi-projector displays using constrained gamut morphing
Multi-projector displays show significant spatial variation in 3D color gamut due to variation in the chromaticity gamuts across the projectors, vignetting effect of each projector and also overlap across adjacent projectors. In this paper we present a new constrained gamut morphing algorithm that removes all these variations and results in true color seamlessness across tiled multi-projector displays. Our color morphing algorithm adjusts the intensities of light from each pixel of each projector precisely to achieve a smooth morphing from one projector's gamut to the other's through the overlap region. This morphing is achieved by imposing precise constraints on the perceptual difference between the gamuts of two adjacent pixels. In addition, our gamut morphing assures a C1 continuity yielding visually pleasing appearance across the entire display. We demonstrate our method successfully on a planar and a curved display using both low and high-end projectors. Our approach is completely scalable, efficient and automatic. We also demonstrate the real-time performance of our image correction algorithm on GPUs for interactive applications. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that presents a scalable method with a strong foundation in perception and realizes, for the first time, a truly seamless display where the number of projectors cannot be deciphered.

Practical multi-projector display design
Large-area high-resolution displays are essential for scientific visualization, entertainment, and defense applications. A popular way to realize such displays is to tile multiple projectors together to create one large display. As opposed to a 19" diagonal monitor with a resolution of 60 pixels per inch, tiled multi-projector displays are often 10' x 8' and have a resolution of 100-300 pixels per inch. The research in this area spans several traditional areas in computer science, including computer vision, computer graphics, image processing, human-computer interaction, and visualization tools. This book shows how to make such displays inexpensive, flexible, and commonplace by making them both perceptually and functionally seamless. In addition, the use of multi-projector techniques in large-scale visualization, virtual reality, computer graphics, and vision applications is discussed.

Content‐Independent Multi‐Spectral Display Using Superimposed Projections
Many works focus on multi‐spectral capture and analysis, but multi‐spectral display still remains a challenge. Most prior works on multi‐primary displays use ad‐hoc narrow band primaries that assure a larger color gamut, but cannot assure a good spectral reproduction. Content‐dependent spectral analysis is the only way to produce good spectral reproduction, but cannot be applied to general data sets. Wide primaries are better suited for assuring good spectral reproduction due to greater coverage of the spectral range, but have not been explored much. In this paper we explore the use of wide band primaries for accurate spectral reproduction for the first time and present the first content‐independent multi‐spectral display achieved using superimposed projections with modified wide band primaries. We present a content‐independent primary selection method that selects a small set of n primaries from a large set of m candidate primaries where m > n. Our primary selection method chooses primaries with complete coverage of the range of visible wavelength (for good spectral reproduction accuracy), low interdependency (to limit the primaries to a small number) and higher light throughput (for higher light efficiency). Once the primaries are selected, the input values of the different primary channels to generate a desired spectrum are computed using an optimization method that minimizes spectral mismatch while maximizing visual quality. We implement a real prototype of multi‐spectral display consisting of 9‐primaries using three modified conventional 3‐primary projectors, and compare it with a conventional display to demonstrate its superior performance. Experiments show our display is capable of providing large gamut assuring a good visual appearance while displaying any multi‐spectral images at a high spectral accuracy.

Immersive teleconferencing: a new algorithm to generate seamless panoramic video imagery
This paper presents a new algorithm for immersive teleconferencing, which addresses the problem of registering and blending multiple images together to create a single seamless panorama. In the immersive teleconference paradigm, one frame of the teleconference is a panorama that is constructed from a compound-image sensing device. These frames are rendered at the remote site on a projection surface that surrounds the user, creating an immersive feeling of presence and participation in the teleconference. Our algorithm efficiently creates panoramic frames for a teleconference session that are both geometrically registered and intensity blended. We demonstrate a prototype that is able to capture images from a compound-image sensor, register them into a seamless panoramic frame, and render those panoramic frames on a projection surface at 30 frames per second.

Registration techniques for using imperfect and par tially calibrated devices in planar multi-projector displays
Multi-projector displays today are automatically registered, both geometrically and photometrically, using cameras. Existing registration techniques assume pre-calibrated projectors and cameras that are devoid of imperfections such as lens distortion. In practice, however, these devices are usually imperfect and uncalibrated. Registration of each of these devices is often more challenging than the multi-projector display registration itself. To make tiled projection-based displays accessible to a layman user we should allow the use of uncalibrated inexpensive devices that are prone to imperfections. In this paper, we make two important advances in this direction. First, we present a new geometric registration technique that can achieve geometric alignment in the presence of severe projector lens distortion using a relatively inexpensive low-resolution camera. This is achieved via a closed-form model that relates the projectors to cameras, in planar multi-projector displays, using rational Bezier patches. This enables us to geometrically calibrate a 3000 times 2500 resolution planar multi-projector display made of 3 times 3 array of nine severely distorted projectors using a low resolution (640 times 480) VGA camera. Second, we present a photometric self-calibration technique for a projector-camera pair. This allows us to photometrically calibrate the same display made of nine projectors using a photometrically uncalibrated camera. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that allows geometrically imperfect projectors and photometrically uncalibrated cameras in calibrating multi-projector displays.

Asynchronous distributed calibration for scalable and reconfigurable multi-projector displays
Centralized techniques have been used until now when automatically calibrating (both geometrically and photometrically) large high-resolution displays created by tiling multiple projectors in a 2D array. A centralized server managed all the projectors and also the camera(s) used to calibrate the display. In this paper, we propose an asynchronous distributed calibration methodology via a display unit called the plug-and-play projector (PPP). The PPP consists of a projector, camera, computation and communication unit, thus creating a self-sufficient module that enables an asynchronous distributed architecture for multi-projector displays. We present a single-program-multiple-data (SPMD) calibration algorithm that runs on each PPP and achieves a truly scalable and reconfigurable display without any input from the user. It instruments novel capabilities like adding/removing PPPs from the display dynamically, detecting faults, and reshaping the display to a reasonable rectangular shape to react to the addition/removal/faults. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt to realize a completely asynchronous and distributed calibration architecture and methodology for multi-projector displays

Hardware accelerated real time charcoal rendering
In this paper, we present simple rendering techniques implemented using traditional graphics hardware to achieve the effects of charcoal drawing. The effects include characteristics of charcoal drawings like broad grainy strokes and smooth tonal variations that are achieved by smudging the charcoal by hand. Further, we also generate the closure effect that is used by artists at times to avoid hard silhouette edges. All these effects are achieved using contrast enhancement operators on textures and/or colors of the 3D model.Our contribution lies in unifying the methods to achieve these effects under the common framework of contrast enhancement operators. Further, since the effects have been implemented using traditional graphics hardware, a single rendering pass is sufficient to create different effects. Hence, we can render highly complex models with large number of triangles at interactive rates. Thus, our method is especially suited for applications like scientific visualization and preliminary sketches/animations.

Auto-calibration of cylindrical multi-projector systems
In this paper we present a novel technique to calibrate multiple casually aligned projectors on a fiducial-free cylindrical curved surface using a single camera. We impose two priors to the cylindrical display: (a) cylinder is a vertically extruded surface; and (b) the aspect ratio of the rectangle formed by the four corners of the screen is known. Using these priors, we can estimate the display's 3D surface geometry and camera extrinsic parameters using a single image without any explicit display to camera correspondences. Using the estimated camera and display properties, we design a novel deterministic algorithm to recover the intrinsic and extrinsic parameters of each projector using a single projected pattern seen by the camera which is then used to register the images on the display from any arbitrary viewpoint making it appropriate for virtual reality systems. Finally, our method can be extended easily to handle sharp corners — making it suitable for the common CAVE like VR setup. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first method that can achieve accurate geometric auto-calibration of multiple projectors on a cylindrical display without performing an extensive stereo reconstruction.

Markerless view-independent registration of multiple distorted projectors on extruded surfaces using an uncalibrated camera
In this paper, we present the first algorithm to geometrically register multiple projectors in a view-independent manner (i.e. wallpapered) on a common type of curved surface, vertically extruded surface, using an uncalibrated camera without attaching any obtrusive markers to the display screen. Further, it can also tolerate large non-linear geometric distortions in the projectors as is common when mounting short throw lenses to allow a compact set-up. Our registration achieves sub-pixel accuracy on a large number of different vertically extruded surfaces and the image correction to achieve this registration can be run in real time on the GPU. This simple markerless registration has the potential to have a large impact on easy set-up and maintenance of large curved multi-projector displays, common for visualization, edutainment, training and simulation applications.

Method to smooth photometric variations across multi-projector displays
In a spatially augmented reality system, multiple projectors are tiled on a complex shaped surface to create a seamless display on it. This has several applications in visualization, gaming, education and entertainment. The main challenges in creating seamless and undistorted imagery on such complex shaped surfaces are geometric registration and color correction. Prior methods that provide solutions for the spatial color variation in multi-projector displays assume rectangular overlap regions across the projectors that is possible only on flat surfaces with extremely constrained projector placement. In this article, we present a novel and fully automated method for removing color variations in a multi-projector display on arbitrary shaped smooth surfaces using a general color gamut morphing algorithm that can handle any arbitrarily shaped overlap between the projectors and assures imperceptible color variations across the display surface.

Using patterns to encode color information for dichromats
Color is one of the most common ways to convey information in visualization applications. Color vision deficiency (CVD) affects approximately 200 million individuals worldwide and considerably degrades their performance in understanding such contents by creating red-green or blue-yellow ambiguities. While several content-specific methods have been proposed to resolve these ambiguities, they cannot achieve this effectively in many situations for contents with a large variety of colors. More importantly, they cannot facilitate color identification. We propose a technique for using patterns to encode color information for individuals with CVD, in particular for dichromats. We present the first content-independent method to overlay patterns on colored visualization contents that not only minimizes ambiguities but also allows color identification. Further, since overlaying patterns does not compromise the underlying original colors, it does not hamper the perception of normal trichromats. We validated our method with two user studies: one including 11 subjects with CVD and 19 normal trichromats, and focused on images that use colors to represent multiple categories; and another one including 16 subjects with CVD and 22 normal trichromats, which considered a broader set of images. Our results show that overlaying patterns significantly improves the performance of dichromats in several color-based visualization tasks, making their performance almost similar to normal trichromats'. More interestingly, the patterns augment color information in a positive manner, allowing normal trichromats to perform with greater accuracy.

Contrast enhancement of images using human contrast sensitivity
Study of contrast sensitivity of the human eye shows that our contrast discrimination sensitivity follows the weber law for suprathreshold levels. In this paper, we apply this fact effectively to design a contrast enhancement method for images that improves the local image contrast by controlling the local image gradient. Unlike previous methods, we achieve this without segmenting the image either in the spatial (multi-scale) or frequency (multi-resolution) domain.We pose contrast enhancement as an optimization problem that maximizes the average local contrast of an image. The optimization formulation includes a perceptual constraint derived directly from human suprathreshold contrast sensitivity function. Then, we propose a greedy heuristic, controlled by a single parameter, to approximate this optimization problem. The results generated by our method is superior to existing techniques showing none of the common artifacts of contrast enhancements like halos, hue shift, and intensity burn-outs.

DONE