A survey of autonomous vision-based see and avoid for unmanned aircraft systems
Tree memory networks for modelling long-term temporal dependencies
Aircraft collision avoidance using spherical visual predictive control and single point features
This paper presents practical vision-based collision avoidance for objects approximating a single point feature. Using a spherical camera model, a visual predictive control scheme guides the aircraft around the object along a conical spiral trajectory. Visibility, state and control constraints are considered explicitly in the controller design by combining image and vehicle dynamics in the process model, and solving the nonlinear optimization problem over the resulting state space. Importantly, range is not required. Instead, the principles of conical spiral motion are used to design an objective function that simultaneously guides the aircraft along the avoidance trajectory, whilst providing an indication of the appropriate point to stop the spiral behaviour. Our approach is aimed at providing a potential solution to the See and Avoid problem for unmanned aircraft and is demonstrated through a series of experimental results using a small quadrotor platform.

Modelling, simulation and flight test of a model predictive controlled multirotor with heavy slung load
Decision strategies for automated visual collision avoidance
This paper provides a preliminary analysis of an autonomous uncooperative collision avoidance strategy for unmanned aircraft using image-based visual control. Assuming target detection, the approach consists of three parts. First, a novel decision strategy is used to determine appropriate reference image features to track for safe avoidance. This is achieved by considering the current rules of the air (regulations), the properties of spiral motion and the expected visual tracking errors. Second, a spherical visual predictive control (VPC) scheme is used to guide the aircraft along a safe spiral-like trajectory about the object. Lastly, a stopping decision based on thresholding a cost function is used to determine when to stop the avoidance behaviour. The approach does not require estimation of range or time to collision, and instead relies on tuning two mutually exclusive decision thresholds to ensure satisfactory performance.

Nonlinear model predictive control for a multi-rotor with heavy slung load
In this paper a novel controller for stable and precise operation of multi-rotors with heavy slung loads is introduced. First, simplified equations of motions for the multi-rotor and slung load are derived. The model is then used to design a Nonlinear Model Predictive Controller (NMPC) that can manage the highly nonlinear dynamics whilst accounting for system constraints. The controller is shown to simultaneously track specified waypoints whilst actively damping large slung load oscillations. A Linear-quadratic regulator (LQR) controller is also derived, and control performance is compared in simulation. Results show the improved performance of the Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC) controller over a larger flight envelope, including aggressive maneuvers and large slung load displacements. Computational cost remains relatively small, amenable to practical implementation. Such systems for small Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) may provide significant benefit to several applications in agriculture, law enforcement and construction.

MPC controlled multirotor with suspended slung load: System architecture and visual load detection
There is an increased interest in the use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles for load transportation from environmental remote sensing to construction and parcel delivery. One of the main challenges is accurate control of the load position and trajectory. This paper presents an assessment of real flight trials for the control of an autonomous multi-rotor with a suspended slung load using only visual feedback to determine the load position. This method uses an onboard camera to take advantage of a common visual marker detection algorithm to robustly detect the load location. The load position is calculated using an onboard processor, and transmitted over a wireless network to a ground station integrating MATLAB/SIMULINK and Robotic Operating System (ROS) and a Model Predictive Controller (MPC) to control both the load and the UAV. To evaluate the system performance, the position of the load determined by the visual detection system in real flight is compared with data received by a motion tracking system. The multi-rotor position tracking performance is also analyzed by conducting flight trials using perfect load position data and data obtained only from the visual system. Results show very accurate estimation of the load position (~5% Offset) using only the visual system and demonstrate that the need for an external motion tracking system is not needed for this task.

Multi-rotor with suspended load: System dynamics and control toolbox
There is an increasing demand for Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) to carry suspended loads as this can provide significant benefits to several applications in agriculture, law enforcement and construction. The load impact on the underlying system dynamics should not be neglected as significant feedback forces may be induced on the vehicle during certain flight manoeuvres. The constant variation in operating point induced by the slung load also causes conventional controllers to demand increased control effort. Much research has focused on standard multi-rotor position and attitude control with and without a slung load. However, predictive control schemes, such as Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC), have not yet been fully explored. To this end, we present a novel controller for safe and precise operation of multi-rotors with heavy slung load in three dimensions. The paper describes a System Dynamics and Control Simulation Toolbox for use with MATLAB/SIMULINK which includes a detailed simulation of the multi-rotor and slung load as well as a predictive controller to manage the nonlinear dynamics whilst accounting for system constraints. It is demonstrated that the controller simultaneously tracks specified waypoints and actively damps large slung load oscillations. A linear-quadratic regulator (LQR) is derived and control performance is compared. Results show the improved performance of the predictive controller for a larger flight envelope, including aggressive manoeuvres and large slung load displacements. The computational cost remains relatively small, amenable to practical implementations.

Image-based visual servoing with unknown point feature correspondence
This paper presents a new image-based visual servoing approach that simultaneously solves the feature correspondence and control problem. Using a finite-time optimal control framework, feature correspondence is implicitly solved for each new image during the control selection, alleviating the need for additional image processing and feature tracking. The proposed approach demonstrates mild robustness properties and leads to acceptable or improved image feature behavior and robot trajectories compared to classical image-based visual servoing, particularly for underactuated robots. As such, preliminary experimental results using a small unmanned quadrotor are also presented.

Visual predictive control of spiral motion
This paper deals with constrained image-based visual servoing of circular and conical spiral motion about an unknown object approximating a single image point feature. Effective visual control of such trajectories has many applications for small unmanned aerial vehicles, including surveillance and inspection, forced landing (homing), and collision avoidance. A spherical camera model is used to derive a novel visual-predictive controller (VPC) using stability-based design methods for general nonlinear model-predictive control. In particular, a quasi-infinite horizon visual-predictive control scheme is derived. A terminal region, which is used as a constraint in the controller structure, can be used to guide appropriate reference image features for spiral tracking with respect to nominal stability and feasibility. Robustness properties are also discussed with respect to parameter uncertainty and additive noise. A comparison with competing visual-predictive control schemes is made, and some experimental results using a small quad rotor platform are given.

String stable integral control design for vehicle platoons with disturbances
Rotorcraft collision avoidance using spherical image-based visual servoing and single point features
This paper presents a reactive collision avoidance method for small unmanned rotorcraft using spherical image-based visual servoing. Only a single point feature is used to guide the aircraft in a safe spiral like trajectory around the target, whilst a spherical camera model ensures the target always remains visible. A decision strategy to stop the avoidance control is derived based on the properties of spiral like motion, and the effect of accurate range measurements on the control scheme is discussed. We show that using a poor range estimate does not significantly degrade the collision avoidance performance, thus relaxing the need for accurate range measurements. We present simulated and experimental results using a small quad rotor to validate the approach.

Terminal airspace modelling for unmanned aircraft systems integration
This paper considers the problem of integrating unmanned aircraft into low altitude airspace above urban environments, including major terminal areas and helicopter landing sites. A simple set of data-driven modelling techniques are used to explore, visualise and assess existing air traffic in a manner more informative to the unmanned aircraft community. First, low altitude air traffic data sets (position reports) are analysed with respect to existing exclusion/no-fly zones. Second, an alternative geometric approach to defining and comparing various exclusion zones is derived based on set theory. The analysis is applied to a region of south-east Queensland, Australia including Brisbane International Airport and three helicopter landing areas. The results challenge some of the current unmanned aircraft regulations, and should help to motivate a more rigorous scientific approach to safely integrate unmanned aircraft.

Low-level collision risk modelling for unmanned aircraft integration and management
This paper considers the problem of robustly quantifying the collision risk associated with unmanned aircraft operations in non-segregated airspace. The work leverages real surveillance data and statistical analysis to produce a new quantitative collision risk methodology that can be scaled to support nationwide determination of air risk. Specifically, spatial and temporal manned traffic attributes are extracted from the surveillance data and uniquely combined with well-established collision modelling concepts to numerically estimate collision risk, conditioned on unmanned mission location and exposure time. The collision risk approach is then applied to a set of low level unmanned operations to illustrate its utility.

Sense and avoid technology developments at Queensland University of Technology
In recent years, the avoidance strategies have become progressively more complex, yet better aligned to pilot see and avoid behaviour. Significant advances have also allowed the system to be characterised by two mutual exclusive thresholds, one for making avoidance decisions and the other for determining when to stop avoidance behaviour. The importance of this is that existing performance evaluation techniques, used to asses systems, such as TCAS, can be leveraged to simultaneously optimise system parameters, determine performance limits, and visualise design trade-offs. The evaluation framework also follows on naturally from the techniques utilising receiver operating curves used to asses the detection performance using similar techniques.

Aircraft trajectory clustering techniques using circular statistics
This paper presents a statistical aircraft trajectory clustering approach aimed at discriminating between typical manned and expected unmanned traffic patterns. First, the track angle history for each trajectory is re-sampled and modelled using a mixture of Von Mises distributions (circular statistics). Second, the re-modelled trajectories are globally aligned using tools from bio-informatics. Third, the alignment scores are used to cluster the trajectories using an iterative k-medoids approach and an appropriate distance function. The approach is then evaluated using synthetically generated unmanned aircraft flights combined with real air traffic position reports taken over a sector of Northern Queensland, Australia. Results suggest that the technique is useful in distinguishing between expected unmanned and manned aircraft traffic behaviour, as well as identifying some common conventional air traffic patterns.

Advances in unmanned aerial systems and payload technologies for precision agriculture
6.

Visual servoing approach to collision avoidance for aircraft
This paper presents a reactive Sense and Avoid approach using spherical image-based visual servoing. Avoidance of point targets in the lateral or vertical plane is achieved without requiring an estimate of range. Simulated results for static and dynamic targets are provided using a realistic model of a small fixed wing unmanned aircraft.

Understanding vertical collision risk and navigation performance for unmanned aircraft
This paper considers the problem of quantifying the vertical overlap probability or vertical collision risk associated with unmanned aircraft operations around aerodromes. The risk models combine real surveillance data and expectations on altitude keeping errors of both manned and unmanned aircraft with well-established collision modelling approaches used in manned aircraft separation standards development. To demonstrate the utility of the proposed vertical collision risk model, a series of investigations are conducted to quantify the vertical collision risk associated with approaching and departing aircraft and the relative impact of unmanned altitude keeping performance. Results demonstrate some shortfalls of current exclusion zones near aerodromes and the need to better understand unmanned navigational errors when considering future unmanned traffic management.

Non-linear model predictive control for UAVs with slung/swung load
Suspended loads on UAVs can provide significant benefits to several applications in agriculture, law enforcement and construction. The load impact on the underlying system dynamics should not be neglected as significant feedback forces may be induced on the vehicle during certain flight manoeuvres. Much research has focused on standard multi-rotor position and attitude control with and without a slung load. However, predictive control schemes, such as Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC), have not yet been fully explored. To this end, we present software and flight system architecture to test controller for safe and precise operation of multi-rotors with heavy slung load in three dimensions.

DONE