Mira—mixed reality agents
Nursing & Midwifery students’ experience of immersive virtual reality storytelling: an evaluative study
Nursing Research covers key issues, including health promotion, human responses to illness, acute care nursing research, symptom management, cost-effectiveness, vulnerable populations, health services, and community-based nursing studies. Each issue highlights the latest research techniques, quantitative and qualitative studies, and new state-of-the-art methodological strategies, including information not yet found in textbooks. Expert commentaries and briefs are also included. In addition to 6 issues per year, Nursing Research from time to time publishes supplemental content not found anywhere else.

From luxury to necessity: Progress of touchless interaction technology
Current challenges and future research directions in augmented reality for education
Innovation in formal and practical learning is an accepted progression and its adoption in learning methodologies is a sign that a respective society is open to new technologies, ideas, and, thus, to advancement. The latest innovation in teaching is the use of Augmented Reality. Applications using this technology have been deployed successfully in STEM(Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) education for delivering the practical and creative parts of the education. Since Augmented Reality technology has already a large volume of published studies about education that reports advantages, limitations, effectiveness, and challenges of AR in education, classifying these projects will allow for a review of the success of Augmented Reality integration in the different educational settings and discover current challenges and future research areas.The main findings of this paper are the generation of a detailed taxonomy of the current literature which outlines the current challenges, the use of this taxonomy to identify future research areas, and finally to report on the development of two case studies that can highlight the first steps need to address these research areas. The result of this research ultimately is to detail the research gap that is needed to be filled to facilitate real-time touchless hand interaction, kinesthetic learning, machine learning agents with a remote learning pedagogy.

Future mixed reality educational spaces
This paper outlines a Tele-presence framework to facilitate teaching in future mixed reality spaces. In a world where the increasing use of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) are beginning to compete with traditional university education, due in part to the rapid increase in student fees across the world, is there a middle ground where the advantages of MOOC's can be balanced with advantages of traditional teaching spaces? This future mixed reality space diverges from other Multi-User Virtual Learning Environments (MUVLE) by aiming to create mixed reality spaces in which the lecturer and students can not only be virtually present anywhere in the world, but also be physically present. The work presented here is to discuss the current state of technologies and explore the multiple issues, both social and technical, of providing such a resource to students in the future. The first step in order to create this space was to model a real world location that could also be used as a Mixed Reality Campus; this was carried out using 3D modelling tools and runs a simulation using a game engine that supports the Oculus VR HMD / VIVE HMD. Users would able to explore this space utilising different interfaces, from a desktop interface to a full 3D immersive interface, using the HTC VIVE. Webcams, 360 panorama video and 2D holograms create a shared space that will allow 2D holographic lecturers to be a virtual entity in the real world lecture room. This was achieved using inexpensive reflective films allowing for projection onto glass. This paper proposes a future Mixed Reality Space that combines these technologies and will allow both lecturers and students to maintain a joint space supporting the constructivist teaching and the traditional approaches.

Uses of virtual reality for communication in financial services: A case study on comparing different telepresence interfaces: Virtual reality compared to video conferencing
HMD-based virtual and augmented reality in medical education: a systematic review
Background: Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) technologies provide a novel experiential learning environment that can revolutionize medical education. These technologies have limitless potential as they provide in effect an infinite number of anatomical models to aid in foundational medical education. The 3D teaching models used within these environments are generated from medical data such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT), which can be dissected and regenerated without limitations. Methods: A systematic review was carried out for existing articles until February 11, 2020, in EMBASE, PubMed, Scopus, ProQuest, Cochrane Reviews, CNKI, and OneSearch (University College Dublin Library) using the following search terms: (Virtual Reality OR Augmented Reality OR mixed reality) AND [“head-mounted” OR “face-mounted” OR “helmet-mounted” OR “head-worn” OR oculus OR vive OR HTC OR hololens OR “smart glasses” OR headset AND (training OR teaching OR education)] AND (anatomy OR anatomical OR medicine OR medical OR clinic OR clinical OR surgery OR surgeon OR surgical) AND (trial OR experiment OR study OR randomized OR randomised OR controlled OR control) NOT (rehabilitation OR recovery OR treatment) NOT (“systematic review” OR “review of literature” OR “literature review”). PRISMA guidelines were adhered to in reporting the results. All studies that examined people who are or were medical-related (novel or expert users) were included. Result: The electronic searches generated a total of 1,241 studies. After removing duplicates, 848 remained. Of those, 801 studies were excluded because the studies did not meet the criteria after reviewing the abstract. The full text of the remaining 47 studies was reviewed. After applying inclusion criteria and exclusion criteria, a total of 17 studies (1,050 participants) were identified for inclusion in the review. Conclusion: The systematic review provides the current state of the art on head-mounted device applications in medical education. Moreover, the study discusses trends toward the future and directions for further research in head-mounted VR and AR for medical education.

Freegaming: Mobile, collaborative, adaptive and augmented exergaming
Addressing the obesity epidemic that plagues many societies remains an outstanding public health issue. One innovative approach to addressing this problem is Exergaming. A combination of "Exercise" and "Gaming", the objective is to motivate people participate in exercise regimes, usually in their home environment. In this paper a more holistic interpretation of this exercise paradigm is proposed. Freegaming augments Exergaming in a number of key dimensions but especially through the promotion of games in outdoor mobile contexts and within a social environment. The design and implementation of a platform for Freegaming is described and illustrated through the description of a sample game.

Why, when and how to use augmented reality agents (AuRAs)
The emerging need for touchless interaction technologies
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) as well as Europe's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). To address privacy and data-protection concerns, a mobile tracking initiative has been launched in Europe, consisting of 130 members across eight countries. Pan-European Privacy-Preserving Proximity Tracing (PEPPPT) [5] aims to create an app that takes advantage of Bluetooth signals to detect within certain limits if users may be close enough to infect each other (e.g., closer than 2 meters for more than 15 minutes). Unlike the invasive surveillance technology now being used by governments, the initiative adheres to European privacy and data-protection laws by encrypting and anonymizing personal information. Mobile-tracking apps could provide more accurate data during a pandemic in order to reduce transmission. They are, however, not without challenges. For instance, enough people must install mobile-tracking apps for them to be useful. Even if 30 to 50 percent of a population installs a mobile-tracking app, it could have a long-term impact. Continuous use of contact tracing through mobile tracking, together with physical distancing, may need to be combined with scaled-up testing and hygiene measures to avoid a resurgence of the disease. The global HCI community has united to work passionately on initiatives that make use of our devices to combat this pandemic. Across the world, HCI has played an essential role in a series of virtual hackathons in which novel tools are being designed to address the challenges with Covid-19 (HackTheCrisis in Sweden, the MIT Covid-19 Challenge in the U.S., and the pan-EU EUvsVirus). In the end, defeating the disease requires collective efforts to protect ourselves and our loved ones.

Location-based augmented reality in-situ visualization applied for agricultural fieldwork navigation
Nowadays unbalanced crop yield and population growth have led to people worry about a potential future “Agricultural Crisis”. To increase the arable land use efficiency, this research has focused on the development of Augmented Reality based Agricultural information visualization and fieldwork navigation tool. This tool has been developed to provide professional aids for farmers’ daily fieldwork. To provide continuous fieldwork assistance, this system integrates non-distraction field navigation, the overall visualization of fields and subfields in the form of overlaid polygons, and the detail sensor data visualization for pertinent subfields in the form of Point of Interests. Due to the limitation of current commercially available AR headsets, we first validate this test bench on Virtual Reality video see-through headsets and AR tablets. At this stage, this test bench has only been validated with simulated data. In future, Situated Analytics concepts are planned to be integrated into the system to in-situ visualize real-time datachunks acquired from local sensors, so as to provide timely-accurate information and decision support even when the whole dataset is in a high volume.

Evaluating the reliability of air temperature from ERA5 reanalysis data
The reliability of European Remote Sensing 5 (ERA5) satellite-based air temperature data is under investigation in this letter. To evaluate this, the ERA5 data will be compared with land-based data obtained from weather stations on the global historical climatology network (GHCN). Two climate regions are taken into consideration, temperate and tropical. Five years worth of data is collected and compared through box plots, regression models, and statistical metrics. The results show that the satellite temperature performs better in the temperate region than the tropical region. This suggests that the time of year and climate region have an impact on the accuracy of the satellite data as milder temperatures produce better approximations.

