Developing a context-aware electronic tourist guide: some issues and experiences
In this paper, we describe our experiences of developing and evaluating GUIDE, an intelligent electronic tourist guide. The GUIDE system has been built to overcome many of the limitations of the traditional information and navigation tools available to city visitors. For example, group-based tours are inherently inflexible with fixed starting times and fixed durations and (like most guidebooks) are constrained by the need to satisfy the interests of the majority rather than the specific interests of individuals. Following a period of requirements capture, involving experts in the field of tourism, we developed and installed a system for use by visitors to Lancaster. The system combines mobile computing technologies with a wireless infrastructure to present city visitors with information tailored to both their personal and environmental contexts. In this paper we present an evaluation of GUIDE, focusing on the quality of the visitor's experience when using the system.

Experiences of developing and deploying a context-aware tourist guide: the GUIDE project
The GUIDE system has been developed to provide city visitors with a hand-held context-aware tourist guide. The system has been successfully deployed in a major tourist destination and is currently at the stage where it is publicly available to visitors who wish to explore the city. Reaching this stage has been the culmination of a number of distinct research efforts. In more detail, the development of GUIDE has involved: capturing a real set of application requirements, investigating the properties of a cell-based wireless communications technology in a built-up environment and deploying a network based on this technology around the city, designing and populating an information model to represent attractions and key buildings within the city, prototyping the development of a distributed application running across portable GUIDE units and stationary cell-servers and finally, evaluating the entire system during an extensive field-trial study. This paper reports on our results in each of these areas. We believe that through our work on the GUIDE project we have produced a blueprint for the development of interactive context-aware systems that should be of real value to those in the community who wish to develop such systems in a practical environment.

Preserving privacy in environments with location-based applications
The increase in location-based applications makes protecting personal location information a major challenge. Addressing this challenge requires a mechanism that lets users automate control of their location information, thereby minimizing the extent to which the system intrudes on their lives.

Understanding the impact of e-commerce on last-mile light goods vehicle activity in urban areas: The case of London
Exploiting space and location as a design framework for interactive mobile systems
The real climate and transformative impact of ICT: A critique of estimates, trends, and regulations
Ubicomp systems at 20: Progress, opportunities, and challenges
This retrospective on 20 years of ubiquitous computing research identifies opportunities for leveraging utility computing and the Internet of Things to grow the ubicomp infrastructure, and discusses remaining challenges to taking ubicomp systems to where they indeed become ubiquitous.

'Caches in the air': disseminating tourist information in the GUIDE system
The paper describes work carried out as part of the GUIDE project at Lancaster University. The overall aim of the project is to develop a context-sensitive tourist guide for visitors to the city of Lancaster. Visitors are equipped with portable GUIDE units which in turn provide interactive services and dynamically tailored Web based information, reflecting the visitor's preferences and environmental context. In contrast to existing tourist systems, all information in GUIDE is obtained dynamically using a city-wide wireless network infrastructure. We focus on the design of the GUIDE information model. The model presented is novel by virtue of the fact that it enables both geographic and contextual information to be captured. The paper also describes our development of an efficient broadcast mechanism which enables visitors' requests for information to be serviced quickly despite the wireless communications infrastructure employed.

Context acquisition based on load sensing
Supporting service discovery, querying and interaction in ubiquitous computing environments
In this paper, we contend that ubiquitous computing environments will be highly heterogeneous, service rich domains. Moreover, future applications will consequently be required to interact with multiple, specialised service location and interaction protocols simultaneously. We argue that existing service discovery techniques do not provide sufficient support to address the challenges of building applications targeted to these emerging environments.This paper makes a number of contributions. Firstly, using a set of short ubiquitous computing scenarios we identify several key limitations of existing service discovery approaches that reduce their ability to support ubiquitous computing applications. Secondly, we present a detailed analysis of requirements for providing effective support in this domain. Thirdly, we provide the design of a simple extensible meta-service discovery architecture that uses database techniques to unify service discovery protocols and addresses several of our key requirements. Lastly, we examine the lessons learnt through the development of a prototype implementation of our architecture.

Public ubiquitous computing systems: Lessons from the e-campus display deployments
Lessons learned from building and deploying three experimental public display systems have general app to many types of public ubicomp deployments. Lancaster University's e-Campus project is exploring the creation of large-scale networked displays as part of a public, interactive pervasive computing environment. For the project, we built and deployed three experimental display systems that vary in technology, location, scale, and user community, and they've given us a rich set of experiences. We've summarized 13 lessons learned from this experience. The lessons certainly apply to researchers planning similar deployments. We also believe they will generalize to other public ubicomp installations. The e-Campus project is embarking on a major new set of deployments. We're using these lessons to help guide our work and we believe the lessons learned will be valuable to all researchers deploying ubicomp systems in public spaces

An architecture for the effective support of adaptive context-aware applications
How close is close enough? Understanding the role of cloudlets in supporting display appropriation by mobile users
Transient use of displays by mobile users was prophesied two decades ago. Today, convergence of a range of technologies enable the realization of this vision. For researchers in this space, one key question is where to physically locate the application for which the display has been appropriated. The emergence of cloud and cloudlet computing has increased the range of possible locations. In this paper we focus on understanding the extent to which application location impacts user experience when appropriating displays. We describe a usage model in which public displays can be appropriated to support spontaneous use of interactive applications, present an example architecture based on cloudlets, and explore how application location impacts user experience.

Limbo: A tuple space based platform for adaptive mobile applications
A context-aware middleware for applications in mobile ad hoc environments
Novel ubiquitous computing applications such as intelligent vehicles, smart buildings, and traffic management require special properties that traditional computing applications do not support, such as context-awareness, massive decentralisation, autonomous behaviour, adaptivity, proactivity, and innate collaboration. This paper presents a new computational model and middleware that reflect support for the required the properties. The sentient object model is proposed by the CORTEX<sup>1</sup> project to support the construction of ubiquitous applications. A flexible, run-time reconfigurable component-based middleware has been built to provide run-time support to engineer the sentient object programming paradigm. An application infrastructure using sentient objects to enable cooperation between autonomous and proactive vehicles has been implemented to demonstrate the appropriateness of the computational model and the validity of the middleware for pervasive mobile ad hoc computing.

L2imbo: A distributed systems platform for mobile computing
Using bluetooth device names to support interaction in smart environments
An increasing trend in mobile and pervasive computing is the augmentation of everyday public spaces with local computation - leading to so called smart environments. However, there are no well accepted techniques for supporting spontaneous interaction between mobile users and these smart environments, though a wide range of techniques have been explored ranging from gesture recognition to downloading applications to a user's phone. In this paper we explore an approach to supporting such interaction based on the use of Bluetooth Device (user-friendly) Names as a control channel between users' mobile phones and computational resources in their local environment. Such an approach has many advantages over existing techniques though it is not without limitations. Our work focuses specifically on the use of Device Names to control and customize applications on large public displays in a campus environment. This paper describes our basic approach, a number of applications that we have constructed using this technique and the results of our evaluation work which has included a range of user studies and field trials. The paper concludes with an assessment of the viability of using our approach for interaction scenarios involving mobile users and computationally rich environments.

Beyond data in the smart city: repurposing existing campus IoT
In this article, the authors present a case study of their experiences in using existing IoT infrastructure to create a campus-scale "living laboratory" for promoting energy savings and environmental sustainability. As a series of lessons for others creating IoT systems from existing city infrastructures, they present the challenges they've experienced through their attempt to join and repurpose existing energy monitoring and building management systems as an IoT infrastructure for a "smart campus." They highlight the limitations of particular views of a campus from a purely data-driven perspective, advocating data-aware over data-driven approaches that engage a wide variety of stakeholders. Finally, they reflect on the inclusion of people's practices in understanding and designing smart cities and repurposing existing IoT. They also highlight the need for more careful consideration of ethics and domestication when creating smart campuses and the importance of challenging the existing rhetoric around energy waste in smart cities and smart buildings research. This article is part of a special issue on smart cities.

Look back before leaping forward: Four decades of domestic energy inquiry
The climate impact of ICT: A review of estimates, trends and regulations
We examine peer-reviewed studies which estimate ICT’s current share of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to be 1.8-2.8% of global GHG emissions. This corresponds with the baseline estimates for policy making in Europe (i.e. ‘more than 2%’). We identify sources of variability in these estimates due to: 1) use of different data sources; 2) variation in the recency of the data used; and 3) varying approaches to boundaries of the analysis, specifically what is considered to be ‘in the scope’ of ICT’s footprint and what elements of its carbon footprint are considered. Our findings indicate that published estimates all systematically underestimate the carbon footprint of ICT, possibly by as much as 25%, by failing to account for all of ICT’s supply chains and full lifecycle (i.e. emissions scopes 1, 2 and fully inclusive 3). Adjusting for truncation of supply chain pathways, we estimate that ICT’s share of emissions could actually be as high as 2.1-3.9%. We also note the lack of public availability of the data behind many of these estimates.

DONE