Agile dynamic provisioning of multi-tier internet applications
Dynamic capacity provisioning is a useful technique for handling the multi-time-scale variations seen in Internet workloads. In this article, we propose a novel dynamic provisioning technique for multi-tier Internet applications that employs (1) a flexible queuing model to determine how much of the resources to allocate to each tier of the application, and (2) a combination of predictive and reactive methods that determine when to provision these resources, both at large and small time scales. We propose a novel data center architecture based on virtual machine monitors to reduce provisioning overheads. Our experiments on a forty-machine Xen/Linux-based hosting platform demonstrate the responsiveness of our technique in handling dynamic workloads. In one scenario where a flash crowd caused the workload of a three-tier application to double, our technique was able to double the application capacity within five minutes, thus maintaining response-time targets. Our technique also reduced the overhead of switching servers across applications from several minutes to less than a second, while meeting the performance targets of residual sessions.

Dynamic resource allocation for shared data centers using online measurements
Dynamic provisioning of multi-tier internet applications
Dynamic capacity provisioning is a useful technique for handling the multi-time-scale variations seen in Internet workloads. In this paper, we propose a novel dynamic provisioning technique for multitier Internet applications that employs (i) a flexible queuing model to determine how much resources to allocate to each tier of the application, and (ii) a combination of predictive and reactive methods that determine when to provision these resources, both at large and small time scales. Our experiments on a forty-machine Linux-based hosting platform demonstrate the responsiveness of our technique in handling dynamic workloads. In one scenario where a flash crowd caused the workload of a three-tier application to double, our technique was able to double the application capacity within five minutes, thus maintaining response time targets

Starling: Minimizing communication overhead in virtualized computing platforms using decentralized affinity-aware migration
Virtualization is being widely used in large-scale computing environments, such as clouds, data centers, and grids, to provide application portability and facilitate resource multiplexing while retaining application isolation. In many existing virtualized platforms, it has been found that the network bandwidth often becomes the bottleneck resource, causing both high network contention and reduced performance for communication and data-intensive applications. In this paper, we present a decentralized affinity-aware migration technique that incorporates heterogeneity and dynamism in network topology and job communication patterns to allocate virtual machines on the available physical resources. Our technique monitors network affinity between pairs of VMs and uses a distributed bartering algorithm, coupled with migration, to dynamically adjust VM placement such that communication overhead is minimized. Our experimental results running the Intel MPI benchmark and a scientific application on a 7-node Xen cluster show that we can get up to 42% improvement in the runtime of the application over a no-migration technique, while achieving up to 85% reduction in network communication cost. In addition, our technique is able to adjust to dynamic variations in communication patterns and provides both good performance and low network contention with minimal overhead.

Surplus Fair Scheduling: A {Proportional-Share}{CPU} Scheduling Algorithm for Symmetric Multiprocessors
In this paper, we present surplus fair scheduling (SFS), a proportional-share CPU scheduler designed for symmetric multiprocessors. We first show that the infeasibility of certain weight assignments in multiprocessor environments results in unfairness or starvation in many existing proportional-share schedulers. We present a novel weight readjustment algorithm to translate infeasible weight assignments to a set of feasible weights. We show that weight readjustment enables existing proportional-share schedulers to significantly reduce, but not eliminate, the unfairness in their allocations. We then present surplus fair scheduling, a proportional-share scheduler that is designed explicitly for multiprocessor environments. We implement our scheduler in the Linux kernel and demonstrate its efficacy through an experimental evaluation. Our results show that SFS can achieve proportionate allocation, application isolation and good interactive performance, albeit at a slight increase in scheduling overhead. We conclude from our results that a proportional-share scheduler such as SFS is not only practical but also desirable for server operating systems.

Nebula: Distributed edge cloud for data intensive computing
Centralized cloud infrastructures have become the de-facto platform for data-intensive computing today. However, they suffer from inefficient data mobility due to the centralization of cloud resources, and hence, are highly unsuited for dispersed-data-intensive applications, where the data may be spread at multiple geographical locations. In this paper, we present Nebula: a dispersed cloud infrastructure that uses voluntary edge resources for both computation and data storage. We describe the lightweight Nebula architecture that enables distributed data-intensive computing through a number of optimizations including location-aware data and computation placement, replication, and recovery. We evaluate Nebula's performance on an emulated volunteer platform that spans over 50 PlanetLab nodes distributed across Europe, and show how a common data-intensive computing framework, MapReduce, can be easily deployed and run on Nebula. We show Nebula MapReduce is robust to a wide array of failures and substantially outperforms other wide-area versions based on a BOINC like model.

Application performance in the QLinux multimedia operating system
In this paper, we argue that conventional operating systems need to be enhanced with predictable resource management mechanisms to meet the diverse performance requirements of emerging multimedia and web applications. We present QLinux—a multimedia operating system based on the Linux kernel that meets this requirement. QLinux employs hierarchical schedulers for fair, predictable allocation of processor, disk and network bandwidth, and accounting mechanisms for appropriate charging of resource usage. We experimentally evaluate the efficacy of these mechanisms using benchmarks and real-world applications. Our experimental results show that (i) emerging applications can indeed benefit from predictable allocation of resources, and (ii) the overheads imposed by the resource allocation mechanisms in QLinux are small. For instance, we show that the QLinux CPU scheduler can provide predictable performance guarantees to applications such as web servers and MPEG players, albeit at the expense of increasing the scheduling overhead. We conclude from our experiments that the benefits due to the resource management mechanisms in QLinux outweigh their increased overheads, making them a practical choice for conventional operating systems.

An observation-based approach towards self-managing web servers
The Web server architectures that provide performance isolation, service differentiation, and QoS guarantees rely on external administrators to set the right parameter values for the desired performance. Due to the complexity of handling varying workloads and bottleneck resources, configuring such parameters optimally becomes a challenge. In this paper we describe an observation-based approach for self-managing Web servers that can adapt to changing workloads while maintaining the QoS requirements of different classes. In this approach, the system state is monitored continuously and parameter values of various system resources-primarily the accept queue and the CPU-are adjusted to maintain the system-wide QoS goals. We implement our techniques using the Apache Web server and the Linux operating system. We first demonstrate the need to manage different resources in the system depending on the workload characteristics. We then experimentally demonstrate that our observation-based system can adapt to workload changes by dynamically adjusting the resource shares in order to maintain the QoS goals.

Nebulas: Using Distributed Voluntary Resources to Build Clouds.
Current cloud services are deployed on well-provisioned and centrally controlled infrastructures. However, there are several classes of services for which the current cloud model may not fit well: some do not need strong performance guarantees, the pricing may be too expensive for some, and some may be constrained by the data movement costs to the cloud. To satisfy the requirements of such services, we propose the idea of using distributed voluntary resources--those donated by end-user hosts--to form nebulas: more dispersed, less-managed clouds. We first discuss the requirements of cloud services and the challenges in meeting these requirements in such voluntary clouds. We then present some possible solutions to these challenges and also discuss opportunities for further improvements to make nebulas a viable cloud paradigm.

Adaptive reputation-based scheduling on unreliable distributed infrastructures
This paper addresses the inherent unreliability and instability of worker nodes in large-scale donation-based distributed infrastructures such as peer-to-peer and grid systems. We present adaptive scheduling techniques that can mitigate this uncertainty and significantly outperform current approaches. In this work, we consider nodes that execute tasks via donated computational resources and may behave erratically or maliciously. We present a model in which reliability is not a binary property, but a statistical one based on a node's prior performance and behavior. We use this model to construct several reputation-based scheduling algorithms that employ estimated reliability ratings of worker nodes for efficient task allocation. Our scheduling algorithms are designed to adapt to changing system conditions, as well as nonstationary node reliability. Through simulation, we demonstrate that our algorithms can significantly improve throughput while maintaining a very high success rate of task completion. Our results suggest that reputation-based scheduling can handle a wide variety of worker populations, including nonstationary behavior, with overhead that scales well with system size. We also show that our adaptation mechanism allows the application designer fine-grain control over the desired performance metrics.

Exploiting spatio-temporal tradeoffs for energy-aware mapreduce in the cloud
MapReduce is a distributed computing paradigm widely used for building large-scale data processing applications. When used in cloud environments, MapReduce clusters are dynamically created using virtual machines (VMs) and managed by the cloud provider. In this paper, we study the energy efficiency problem for such MapReduce clusters in private cloud environments, that are characterized by repeated, batch execution of jobs. We describe a unique spatio-temporal tradeoff that includes efficient spatial fitting of VMs on servers to achieve high utilization of machine resources, as well as balanced temporal fitting of servers with VMs having similar runtimes to ensure a server runs at a high utilization throughout its uptime. We propose VM placement algorithms that explicitly incorporate these tradeoffs. Our algorithms achieve energy savings over existing placement techniques, and an additional optimization technique further achieves savings while simultaneously improving job performance.

Does virtualization make disk scheduling passé?
We examine whether traditional disk I/O scheduling still provides benefits in a layered system consisting of virtualized operating systems and underlying virtual machine monitor. We demonstrate that choosing the appropriate scheduling algorithm in guest operating systems provides performance benefits, while scheduling in the virtual machine monitor has no measurable advantage. We propose future areas for investigation, including schedulers optimized for running in a virtual machine, for running in a virtual machine monitor, and layered schedulers optimizing both application level access and the underlying storage technology.

Quantifying the benefits of resource multiplexing in on-demand data centers
On-demand data centers host multiple applications on server farms by dynamically provisioning resources in response to workload variations. The efficiency of such dynamic provisioning on the required server farm capacity is dependent on several factors — the granularity and frequency of reallocation, the number of applications being hosted, the amount of resource overprovisioning and the accuracy of workload prediction. In this paper, we quantify the effect of these factors on the multiplexing benefits achievable in an on-demand data center. Using traces of real e-commerce workloads, we demonstrate that the ability to allocate fractional server resources at fine time-scales of tens of seconds to a few minutes can increase the multiplexing benefits by 162-188% over coarsegrained reallocation. Our results also show that these benefits increase in the presence of large number of hosted applications as a result of high level of multiplexing. In addition, we demonstrate that such fine-grained multiplexing is achievable even in the presence of real-world (inaccurate) workload predictors and allows overprovisioning slack of nearly 35-70% over coarse-grained multiplexing.

Decentralized edge clouds
Community-built telecommunication networks such as Guifi.net demonstrate how end users can actively collaborate in the self-provision of network services, for instance by operating a self-organized distributed monitoring system. Network monitoring is performed by many small servers at the users' premises but data are only accessible via a centralized interface. Besides, due to network partitions and churn of the monitoring servers, failures in the monitoring system are frequent, leaving parts of the network unmonitored. Distributed databases are a promising solution for data replication under network partition condition, but they suffer from a trade-off between data consistency and availability. Furthermore, these databases are used in data centers with abundant computing resources, not in light edge networks. In this work we present DIMON, a reliable edge-based, eventually-consistent monitoring system that leverages CRDT-based data structures implemented in AntidoteDB. Conflict-free replicated data types (CRDTs) are able to converge to a consistent state in environments with network partitions as those found in edge networks. Our results give insights on the load of AntidoteDB on edge devices under different scenarios of read and write operations. The experiments carried out in a production network with a real system implemented contribute to the research community's knowledge about the available technologies for a consistent replicated data storage layer to support edge computing clouds.

Exploring mapreduce efficiency with highly-distributed data
MapReduce is a highly-popular paradigm for high-performance computing over large data sets in large-scale platforms. However, when the source data is widely distributed and the computing platform is also distributed, e.g. data is collected in separate data center locations, the most efficient architecture for running Hadoop jobs over the entire data set becomes non-trivial. In this paper, we show the traditional single-cluster MapReduce setup may not be suitable for situations when data and compute resources are widely distributed. Further, we provide recommendations for alternative (and even hierarchical) distributed MapReduce setup configurations, depending on the workload and data set.

Deadline fair scheduling: bridging the theory and practice of proportionate pair scheduling in multiprocessor systems
The authors present Deadline Fair Scheduling (DFS), a proportionate-fair CPU scheduling algorithm for multiprocessor servers. A particular focus of our work is to investigate practical issues in instantiating proportionate-fair (P-fair) schedulers into conventional operating systems. We show via a simulation study that characteristics of conventional operating systems such as the asynchrony in scheduling multiple processors, frequent arrivals and departures of tasks, and variable quantum durations can cause proportionate-fair schedulers to become non-work-conserving. To overcome this drawback, we combine DFS with an auxiliary work-conserving scheduler to ensure work-conserving behavior at all times. We then propose techniques to account for processor affinities while scheduling tasks in multiprocessor environments. We implement the resulting scheduler in the Linux kernel and evaluate its performance using various applications and benchmarks. Our experimental results show that DFS can achieve proportionate allocation, performance isolation and work-conserving behavior at the expense of a small increase in the scheduling overhead. We conclude that practical considerations such as work-conserving behavior and processor affinities when incorporated into a P-fair scheduler such as DFS can result in a practical approach for scheduling tasks in a multiprocessor operating system.

Nebula: Distributed edge cloud for data intensive computing
Centralized cloud infrastructures have become the de-facto platform for data-intensive computing today. However, they suffer from inefficient data mobility due to the centralization of cloud resources, and hence, are highly unsuited for dispersed-data-intensive applications, where the data may be spread at multiple geographical locations. In this paper, we present Nebula: a dispersed cloud infrastructure that uses voluntary edge resources for both computation and data storage. We describe the lightweight Nebula architecture that enables distributed data-intensive computing through a number of optimizations including location-aware data and computation placement, replication, and recovery. We evaluate Nebula's performance on an emulated volunteer platform that spans over 50 PlanetLab nodes distributed across Europe, and show how a common data-intensive computing framework, MapReduce, can be easily deployed and run on Nebula. We show Nebula MapReduce is robust to a wide array of failures and substantially outperforms other wide-area versions based on a BOINC like model.

End-to-end optimization for geo-distributed mapreduce
MapReduce has proven remarkably effective for a wide variety of data-intensive applications, but it was designed to run on large single-site homogeneous clusters. Researchers have begun to explore the extent to which the original MapReduce assumptions can be relaxed, including skewed workloads, iterative applications, and heterogeneous computing environments. This paper continues this exploration by applying MapReduce across geo-distributed data over geo-distributed computation resources. Using Hadoop, we show that network and node heterogeneity and the lack of data locality lead to poor performance, because the interaction of MapReduce phases becomes pronounced in the presence of heterogeneous network behavior. To address these problems, we take a two-pronged approach: We first develop a model-driven optimization that serves as an oracle, providing high-level insights. We then apply these insights to design cross-phase optimization techniques that we implement and demonstrate in a real-world MapReduce implementation. Experimental results in both Amazon EC2 and PlanetLab show the potential of these techniques as performance is improved by 7-18 percent depending on the execution environment and application.

Scalability of Linux event-dispatch mechanisms
Many Internet servers these days have to handle not just heavy request loads, but also increasingly face large numbers of concurrent connections. In this paper, we discuss some of the event-dispatch mechanisms used by Internet servers to handle the network I/O generated by these request loads. We focus on the mechanisms supported by the Linux kernel, and measure their performance in terms of their dispatch overhead and dispatch throughput. Our comparative studies show that POSIX.4 Real Time signals (RT signals) are a highly efficient mechanism in terms of the overhead and also provide good throughput compared to mechanisms like select() and /dev/poll. We also look at some limitations of RT signals and propose an enhancement to the default RT signal implementation which we call signalper-fd. This enhancement has the advantage of significantly reducing the complexity of a server implementation, increasing its robustness under high load, and also potentially increasing its throughput. In addition, our results also show that, contrary to conventional wisdom, even a select() based server can provide high throughput, even though it has high overhead, if its overhead is amortized by performing more useful work per

Optimizing grouped aggregation in geo-distributed streaming analytics
Large quantities of data are generated continuously over time and from disparate sources such as users, devices, and sensors located around the globe. This results in the need for efficient geo-distributed streaming analytics to extract timely information. A typical analytics service in these settings uses a simple hub-and-spoke model, comprising a single central data warehouse and multiple edges connected by a wide-area network (WAN). A key decision for a geo-distributed streaming service is how much of the computation should be performed at the edge versus the center. In this paper, we examine this question in the context of windowed grouped aggregation, an important and widely used primitive in streaming queries. Our work is focused on designing aggregation algorithms to optimize two key metrics of any geo-distributed streaming analytics service: WAN traffic and staleness (the delay in getting the result). Towards this end, we present a family of optimal offline algorithms that jointly minimize both staleness and traffic. Using this as a foundation, we develop practical online aggregation algorithms based on the observation that grouped aggregation can be modeled as a caching problem where the cache size varies over time. This key insight allows us to exploit well known caching techniques in our design of online aggregation algorithms. We demonstrate the practicality of these algorithms through an implementation in Apache Storm, deployed on the PlanetLab testbed. The results of our experiments, driven by workloads derived from anonymized traces of a popular web analytics service offered by a large commercial CDN, show that our online aggregation algorithms perform close to the optimal algorithms for a variety of system configurations, stream arrival rates, and query types.

DONE