SVM parameter optimization using grid search and genetic algorithm to improve classification performance
Machine Learning algorithms have been widely used to solve various kinds of data classification problems. Classification problem especially for high dimensional datasets have attracted many researchers in order to find efficient approaches to address them. However, the classification problem has become very complicated and computationally expensive, especially when the number of possible different combinations of variables is so high. Support Vector Machine (SVM) has been proven to perform much better when dealing with high dimensional datasets and numerical features. Although SVM works well with default value, the performance of SVM can be improved significantly using parameter optimization. We applied two methods which are Grid Search and Genetic Algorithm (GA) to optimize the SVM parameters. Our experiment showed that SVM parameter optimization using grid search always finds near optimal parameter combination within the given ranges. However, grid search was very slow; therefore it was very reliable only in low dimensional datasets with few parameters. SVM parameter optimization using GA can be used to solve the problem of grid search. GA has proven to be more stable than grid search. Based on average running time on 9 datasets, GA was almost 16 times faster than grid search. Futhermore, the GA’s results were slighlty better than the grid search in 8 of 9 datasets.

Analysis of genetic algorithms using statistical mechanics
A formalism is presented for modelling the evolutionary dynamics of a population of gene sequences. The formalism was originally developed for describing genetic algorithms. In this paper the formalism is elaborated by considering the evolution of an ensemble of populations. This allows the evolution to be modelled more accurately. To illustrate the formalism the problem of a population of gene sequences evolving in a multiplicative fitness landscape is considered. A comparison with simulations is made and shows very good agreement. More complicated problems have already been investigated including sexual recombination and evolution in a multi-valleyed fitness landscape. These results will be briefly reviewed.

Novel centroid selection approaches for KMeans-clustering based recommender systems
Unsupervised clustering approach for network anomaly detection
Learning to count objects in natural images for visual question answering
Visual Question Answering (VQA) models have struggled with counting objects in natural images so far. We identify a fundamental problem due to soft attention in these models as a cause. To circumvent this problem, we propose a neural network component that allows robust counting from object proposals. Experiments on a toy task show the effectiveness of this component and we obtain state-of-the-art accuracy on the number category of the VQA v2 dataset without negatively affecting other categories, even outperforming ensemble models with our single model. On a difficult balanced pair metric, the component gives a substantial improvement in counting over a strong baseline by 6.6%.

Automatic gait recognition using area-based metrics
A scalable, accurate hybrid recommender system
Recommender systems apply machine learning techniques for filtering unseen information and can predict whether a user would like a given resource. There are three main types of recommender systems: collaborative filtering, content-based filtering, and demographic recommender systems. Collaborative filtering recommender systems recommend items by taking into account the taste (in terms of preferences of items) of users, under the assumption that users will be interested in items that users similar to them have rated highly. Content-based filtering recommender systems recommend items based on the textual information of an item, under the assumption that users will like similar items to the ones they liked before. Demographic recommender systems categorize users or items based on their personal attribute and make recommendation based on demographic categorizations. These systems suffer from scalability, data sparsity, and cold-start problems resulting in poor quality recommendations and reduced coverage. In this paper, we propose a unique cascading hybrid recommendation approach by combining the rating, feature, and demographic information about items. We empirically show that our approach outperforms the state of the art recommender system algorithms, and eliminates recorded problems with recommender systems.

Application of bagging, boosting and stacking to intrusion detection
Leveraging clustering approaches to solve the gray-sheep users problem in recommender systems
An analysis of the feasibility of short read sequencing
Several methods for ultra high-throughput DNA sequencing are currently under investigation. Many of these methods yield very short blocks of sequence information (reads). Here we report on an analysis showing the level of genome sequencing possible as a function of read length. It is shown that re-sequencing and de novo sequencing of the majority of a bacterial genome is possible with read lengths of 20–30 nt, and that reads of 50 nt can provide reconstructed contigs (a contiguous fragment of sequence data) of 1000 nt and greater that cover 80% of human chromosome 1.

Analysis of synfire chains
The biological implications of synfire-chain neural networks are explored by studying two idealized models. First a network model with binary firing neurons and parallel updating is proposed. This model can be solved exactly in the thermodynamic limit using the mean-field theory. An explicit equation for the capacity is obtained. In the second model, the synchrony of the pulse of activity along a synfire chain is investigated in the context of simple integrate-and-fire neurons. It is found that under natural assumptions a near-synchronous wave of activity can propagate stably along a synfire chain. The relevance of this result for real systems is discussed.

Genetic drift in genetic algorithm selection schemes
— A method for calculating genetic drift in terms of changing population fitness variance is presented. The method allows for an easy comparison of different selection schemes and exact analytical results are derived for traditional generational selection, steady-state selection with varying generation gap, a simple model of Eshelman's CHC algorithm, and (μ + λ) evolution strategies. The effects of changing genetic drift on the convergence of a GA are demonstrated empirically.

Fmix: Enhancing mixed sample data augmentation
Mixed Sample Data Augmentation (MSDA) has received increasing attention in recent years, with many successful variants such as MixUp and CutMix. From insight on the efficacy of CutMix in particular, we propose FMix, an MSDA that uses binary masks obtained by applying a threshold to low frequency images sampled from Fourier space. FMix improves performance over MixUp and CutMix for a number of models across a range of data sets and problem settings, obtaining new state-of-the-art results on CIFAR-10 and Fashion-MNIST. We go on to analyse MixUp, CutMix, and FMix from an information theoretic perspective, characterising learned models in terms of how they progressively compress the input with depth. Ultimately, our analyses allow us to decouple two complementary properties of augmentations that are useful for reasoning about MSDA. Code for all experiments is available at this https URL.

The dynamics of a genetic algorithm for simple random Ising systems
An improved switching hybrid recommender system using naive bayes classifier and collaborative filtering
Recommender Systems apply machine learning and data mining techniques for filtering unseen information and can predict whether a user would like a given resource. To date a number of recommendation algorithms have been proposed, where collaborative filtering and content-based filtering are the two most famous and adopted recommendation techniques. Collaborative filtering recommender systems recommend items by identifying other users with similar taste and use their opinions for recommendation; whereas content-based recommender systems recommend items based on the content information of the items. These systems suffer from scalability, data sparsity, over specialization, and cold-start problems resulting in poor quality recommendations and reduced coverage. Hybrid recommender systems combine individual systems to avoid certain aforementioned limitations of these systems. In this paper, we proposed a unique switching hybrid recommendation approach by combining a Naive Bayes classification approach with the collaborative filtering. Experimental results on two different data sets, show that the proposed algorithm is scalable and provide better performance – in terms of accuracy and coverage – than other algorithms while at the same time eliminates some recorded problems with the recommender systems.

Modelling the dynamics of a steady-state genetic algorithm
A comparison is made between the dynamics of steady state and generational genetic algorithms using the statistical mechanics approach developed by Prugel-Bennett, Shapiro and Rattray. It is shown that the loss of variance of the population under steady state selection - genetic drift - occurs at twice the rate of generational selection. By considering a simple ones counting problem with selection and mutation, it is shown that, with weak selection, the steady state genetic algorithm can reproduce the dynamics of the generational genetic algorithm at half the computational cost in terms of function evaluations.

Benefits of a population: Five mechanisms that advantage population-based algorithms
—This paper identifies five distinct mechanisms by which a population-based algorithm might have an advantage over a solo-search algorithm in classical optimisation. These mechanisms are illustrated through a number of toy problems. Simulations are presented comparing different search algorithms on these problems. The plausibility of these mechanisms occurring in classical optimisation problems is discussed. The first mechanism we consider relies on putting together building blocks from different solutions. This is extended to include problems containing critical variables. The second mechanism is the result of focusing of the search caused by crossover. Also discussed in this context is strong focusing produced by averaging many solutions. The next mechanism to be examined is the ability of a population to act as a low-pass filter of the landscape, ignoring local distractions. The fourth mechanism is a population's ability to search different parts of the fitness landscape, thus hedging against bad luck in the initial position or the decisions it makes. The final mechanism is the opportunity of learning useful parameter values to balance exploration against exploitation.

Modelling evolving populations
A formalism is presented for modelling the evolutionary dynamics of a population of gene sequences. The formalism was originally developed for describing genetic algorithms. In this paper the formalism is elaborated by considering the evolution of an ensemble of populations. This allows the evolution to be modelled more accurately. To illustrate the formalism the problem of a population of gene sequences evolving in a multiplicative fitness landspace is considered. A comparison with simulations is made and shows very good agreement. More complicated problems have already been investigated including sexual recombination and evolution in a multi-valleyed fitness landscape. These results will be briefly reviewed.

Fspool: Learning set representations with featurewise sort pooling
Traditional set prediction models can struggle with simple datasets due to an issue we call the responsibility problem. We introduce a pooling method for sets of feature vectors based on sorting features across elements of the set. This can be used to construct a permutation-equivariant auto-encoder that avoids this responsibility problem. On a toy dataset of polygons and a set version of MNIST, we show that such an auto-encoder produces considerably better reconstructions and representations. Replacing the pooling function in existing set encoders with FSPool improves accuracy and convergence speed on a variety of datasets.

Training HMM structure with genetic algorithm for biological sequence analysis
SUMMARY
Hidden Markov models (HMMs) are widely used for biological sequence analysis because of their ability to incorporate biological information in their structure. An automatic means of optimizing the structure of HMMs would be highly desirable. However, this raises two important issues; first, the new HMMs should be biologically interpretable, and second, we need to control the complexity of the HMM so that it has good generalization performance on unseen sequences. In this paper, we explore the possibility of using a genetic algorithm (GA) for optimizing the HMM structure. GAs are sufficiently flexible to allow incorporation of other techniques such as Baum-Welch training within their evolutionary cycle. Furthermore, operators that alter the structure of HMMs can be designed to favour interpretable and simple structures. In this paper, a training strategy using GAs is proposed, and it is tested on finding HMM structures for the promoter and coding region of the bacterium Campylobacter jejuni. The proposed GA for hidden Markov models (GA-HMM) allows, HMMs with different numbers of states to evolve. To prevent over-fitting, a separate dataset is used for comparing the performance of the HMMs to that used for the Baum-Welch training. The GA-HMM was capable of finding an HMM comparable to a hand-coded HMM designed for the same task, which has been published previously.

DONE