UAV-based multiple source localization and contour mapping of radiation fields
A pedestrian detection and tracking framework for autonomous cars: Efficient fusion of camera and lidar data
This paper presents a novel method for pedestrian detection and tracking by fusing camera and LiDAR sensor data. To deal with the challenges associated with the autonomous driving scenarios, an integrated tracking and detection framework is proposed. The detection phase is performed by converting LiDAR streams to computationally tractable depth images, and then, a deep neural network is developed to identify pedestrian candidates both in RGB and depth images. To provide accurate information, the detection phase is further enhanced by fusing multi-modal sensor information using the Kalman filter. The tracking phase is a combination of the Kalman filter prediction and an optical flow algorithm to track multiple pedestrians in a scene. We evaluate our framework on a real public driving dataset. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method achieves significant performance improvement over a baseline method that solely uses image-based pedestrian detection.

Fast radiation mapping and multiple source localization using topographic contour map and incremental density estimation
Toward a global picture of the radiation exposure of an area, particularly for fast emergency response, a UAV based exploration method is proposed. Without a priori knowledge of the radiation field, it is difficult to select the region of interest (ROI) which includes all radiation sources. For the case of a single radiation source, a greedy algorithm may localize the source by finding the maximum radiation value. However, when multiple sources generate a hotspot in a cumulative manner, the hotspot position does not coincide with one of the source positions. Therefore, we propose an efficient exploration method to quickly localize the radiation sources using the following procedures: (1) ROI selection using topographic maps with specific radiation level selection methods and (2) source localization estimating the number of sources and their positions with incremental variational Bayes inference of Gaussian mixtures. Under three different conditions according to the number of sources and their positions, we have shown that the proposed model can reduce the ROI and significantly improve the estimation accuracy than existing methods.

Pedestrian detection for autonomous cars: Occlusion handling by classifying body parts
In this work, we address the problem of detecting body parts of pedestrians using deep neural networks. In particular, we consider the occluded pedestrian detection problem in autonomous driving settings. While state-of-the-art deep neural models perform reasonably well for detecting full-body pedestrians, their performances are not satisfactory for occluded pedestrians. Introducing a new training strategy along with a fusion mechanism, we enhance the performance of the SSD-Mobilenet and the Faster R-CNN by utilizing body parts information to handle occluded pedestrians. We evaluate our method by training these two deep neural networks using a public dataset as well as our dataset. The performance of the two developed models is compared both in terms of detection accuracy and runtime efficiency.

Specification-guided behavior tree synthesis and execution for coordination of autonomous systems
Online partial conditional plan synthesis for POMDPs with safe-reachability objectives: Methods and experiments
The framework of partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs) offers a standard approach to model uncertainty in many robot tasks. Traditionally, POMDPs are formulated with optimality objectives. In this article, we study a different formulation of POMDPs with Boolean objectives. For robotic domains that require a correctness guarantee of accomplishing tasks, Boolean objectives are natural formulations. We investigate the problem of POMDPs with a common Boolean objective: safe reachability, requiring that the robot eventually reaches a goal state with a probability above a threshold while keeping the probability of visiting unsafe states below a different threshold. Our approach builds upon the previous work that represents POMDPs with Boolean objectives using symbolic constraints. We employ a satisfiability modulo theories (SMTs) solver to efficiently search for solutions, i.e., policies or conditional plans that specify the action to take contingent on every possible event. A full policy or conditional plan is generally expensive to compute. To improve computational efficiency, we introduce the notion of partial conditional plans that cover sampled events to approximate a full conditional plan. Our approach constructs a partial conditional plan parameterized by a replanning probability. We prove that the failure rate of the constructed partial conditional plan is bounded by the replanning probability. Our approach allows users to specify an appropriate bound on the replanning probability to balance efficiency and correctness. Moreover, we update this bound properly to quickly detect whether the current partial conditional plan meets the bound and avoid unnecessary computation. In addition, to further improve the efficiency, we cache partial conditional plans for sampled belief states and reuse these cached plans if possible. We validate our approach in several robotic domains. The results show that our approach outperforms a previous policy synthesis approach for POMDPs with safe-reachability objectives in these domains. Note to Practitioners—This article was motivated by two observations. On the one hand, in robotics applications where uncertainty in sensing and actions is present, the solution to the classical partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP) formulation is expensive to compute in general. On the other hand, in certain practical scenarios, formulations other than the classical POMDP make a lot of sense and can provide flexibility in balancing efficiency and correctness. This article considers a modified POMDP formulation that includes a Boolean objective, namely safe reachability. This article uses the notion of a partial conditional plan. Rather than explicitly enumerating all possible observations to construct a full conditional plan, this work samples a subset of all observations to ensure bounded replanning probability. Our theoretical and empirical results show that the failure rate of the constructed partial conditional plan is bounded by the replanning probability. Moreover, these partial conditional plans can be cached to further improve the performance. Our results suggest that for domains where replanning is easy, increasing the replanning probability bound usually leads to better scalability, and for domains where replanning is difficult or impossible in some states, we can decrease the bound and allocate more computation time to achieve a higher success rate. Hence, in certain cases, the practitioner can take advantage of their knowledge of the problem domain to scale to larger problems. Preliminary physical experiments suggest that this approach is applicable to real-world robotic domains, but it requires a discrete representation of the workspace. How to deal with continuous workspace directly is an interesting future direction.

Rapid coverage of regions of interest for environmental monitoring
Pedestrian detection for autonomous cars: inference fusion of deep neural networks
Network fusion has been recently explored as an approach for improving pedestrian detection performance. However, most existing fusion methods suffer from runtime efficiency, modularity, scalability, and maintainability due to the complex structure of the entire fused models, their end-to-end training requirements, and sequential fusion process. Addressing these challenges, this paper proposes a novel fusion framework that combines asymmetric inferences from object detectors and semantic segmentation networks for jointly detecting multiple pedestrians. This is achieved by introducing a consensus-based scoring method that fuses pair-wise pixel-relevant information from the object detector and the semantic segmentation network to boost the final confidence scores. The parallel implementation of the object detection and semantic segmentation networks in the proposed framework entails a low runtime overhead. The efficiency and robustness of the proposed fusion framework are extensively evaluated by fusing different state-of-the-art pedestrian detectors and semantic segmentation networks on a public dataset. The generalization of fused models is also examined on new cross pedestrian data collected through an autonomous car. Results show that the proposed fusion method significantly improves detection performance while achieving competitive runtime efficiency.

Fast radioactive hotspot localization using a UAV
We address the problem of hotspot seeking in an unknown radiation field using an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) with limited resources. For on-the-spot investigation of accidental radiation releases, without a priori knowledge on the whereabouts of the source of radiation substances leakages, it is very difficult to navigate and return a UAV for fast hotspot localization. We propose a novel Hexagonal Tree (HexTree) based sampling algorithm to find such an optimal tour path based on the appropriate measurement locations. We make a realistic assumption on the environment, theoretically analyze the optimality of proposed algorithm, and numerically compare the performance with the existing method. The proposed algorithm gives faster convergence to the hotspot, an optimal exploration termination condition, and more informative locations while returning to the initial position than conventional random sampling based exploration and path smoothing algorithms.

Long-term autonomy for AUVs operating under uncertainties in dynamic marine environments
There has been significant interest in recent years in the utility and implementation of autonomous underwater and surface vehicles (AUVs and ASVs) for persistent surveillance of the ocean. Example studies include the dynamics of physical phenomena, e.g., ocean fronts, temperature and salinity profiles, and the onset of harmful algae blooms. For these studies, AUVs are presented with a complex planning and navigation problem to achieve autonomy lasting days and weeks under uncertainties while dealing with resource constraints. We address these issues by adopting motion, sensing, and environment uncertainties via a Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP) framework. We propose a methodology with a novel extension of POMDPs to incorporate spatiotemporally-varying ocean currents as energy and dynamic obstacles as environment uncertainty. Existing POMDP solutions such as the Cost-Constrained Partially Observable Monte-Carlo Planner (POMCP) do not account for energy efficiency. Therefore, we present a scalable Energy Cost-Constrained POMCP algorithm utilizing the predicted ocean dynamics that optimizes energy and environment costs along with goal-driven rewards. A theoretical analysis, along with simulation and real-world experiment results is presented to validate the proposed methodology.

Exploration priority based heuristic approach to uav path planning
This paper presents a 3D online path planning algorithm for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) equipped with limited range sensors and computational resources in unknown cluttered environments. Even though quadrotor UAVs are considered to be a promising technology for surveillance purposes in indoor environments and for close observation in outdoor urban areas, it is very difficult to achieve autonomous aerial navigation toward a goal avoiding unpredicted collisions. Furthermore, greater attention and effort should be aimed at improving the computational efficiency and performance of path planning algorithms. The proposed heuristic algorithm offers on-the-fly path findings with a lesser computational complexity. We demonstrate the efficiency of our algorithm in a real world scenario implemented using the V-REP simulator.

Privacy-preserving multi-robot task allocation via secure multi-party computation
Multi-robot task allocation is a practical way to identify synergies between robots. When all the robots within a system fall under the auspices and authority of a single organization, they can simply be compelled to share their information and participate in cooperative protocols. But when, for instance, they are rivals vying in the marketplace, their own private data may be copyrighted or sensitive, so that disclosing information may erode a competitive advantage. Yet, even limited cooperation, by offering some arbitrage of common resources (such as shared infrastructure), often reduces costs for all parties; indeed, competition and cooperation are not mutually exclusive. We examine the question of how to allocate robots to tasks optimally while ensuring that no task valuations, utilities, positions, or related data are released. We do this via an auction-based assignment algorithm implemented using secure multi-party computation operations, without requiring any trusted auctioneer. The approach offers precise and effective privacy guarantees that are stronger than present methods. We demonstrate the feasibility of the approach via tests in a case study inspired by autonomous driving. First, we tested the approach in a single-computer setup, using parties with virtual network interfaces, where we studied the effects of varying the number of parties and the associated parameters of the auction. Next, we tested the approach in a decentralized, physical test-bed using single board computers running over a WiFi LAN network. Finally, we conducted a small proof-of-concept experiment using two autonomous mobile robots performing a decentralized, private auction.

Connected autonomous vehicles: State of practice
Towards energy-aware feedback planning for long-range autonomous underwater vehicles
Ocean ecosystems have spatiotemporal variability and dynamic complexity that require a long-term deployment of an autonomous underwater vehicle for data collection. A new generation of long-range autonomous underwater vehicles (LRAUVs), such as the Slocum glider and Tethys-class AUV, has emerged with high endurance, long-range, and energy-aware capabilities. These new vehicles provide an effective solution to study different oceanic phenomena across multiple spatial and temporal scales. For these vehicles, the ocean environment has forces and moments from changing water currents which are generally on the order of magnitude of the operational vehicle velocity. Therefore, it is not practical to generate a simple trajectory from an initial location to a goal location in an uncertain ocean, as the vehicle can deviate significantly from the prescribed trajectory due to disturbances resulted from water currents. Since state estimation remains challenging in underwater conditions, feedback planning must incorporate state uncertainty that can be framed into a stochastic energy-aware path planning problem. This article presents an energy-aware feedback planning method for an LRAUV utilizing its kinematic model in an underwater environment under motion and sensor uncertainties. Our method uses ocean dynamics from a predictive ocean model to understand the water flow pattern and introduces a goal-constrained belief space to make the feedback plan synthesis computationally tractable. Energy-aware feedback plans for different water current layers are synthesized through sampling and ocean dynamics. The synthesized feedback plans provide strategies for the vehicle that drive it from an environment’s initial location toward the goal location. We validate our method through extensive simulations involving the Tethys vehicle’s kinematic model and incorporating actual ocean model prediction data.

Monte-Carlo Policy Synthesis in POMDPs with Quantitative and Qualitative Objectives
Autonomous robots operating in uncertain environments often face the problem of planning under a mix of formal, qualitative requirements, for example the assertion that the robot reaches a goal location safely, and optimality criteria, for example that the path to the goal is as short or energy-efficient as possible. Such problems can be modeled as Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs) with quantitative and qualitative objectives. In this paper, we present a new policy synthesis algorithm, called Policy Synthesis with Statistical Model Checking (PO-SMC), for such POMDPs. While previous policy synthesis approaches for this setting use symbolic tools (for example satisfiability solvers) to meet the qualitative requirements, our approach is based on Monte Carlo sampling and uses statistical model checking to ensure that the qualitative requirements are satisfied with high confidence. An appeal of statistical model checking is that it can handle rich temporal requirements such as safe-reachability, while being far more scalable than symbolic methods. The safe-reachability property combines the safety and reachability requirements as a single qualitative requirement. While our use of sampling introduces approximations that symbolic approaches do not require, we present theoretical results that show that the error due to approximation is bounded. Our experimental results demonstrate that PO-SMC consistently performs orders of magnitude faster than existing symbolic methods for policy synthesis under qualitative and quantitative requirements.

Online boundary estimation in partially observable environments using a uav
3D exploration priority based flocking of UAVs
This paper presents a 3D flocking algorithm for a team of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), where each member is equipped with limited range sensors and computational resources. A minimal leader-follower communication scheme is proposed for maneuvering huge swarm of UAVs. The proposed triangular formation compacts the overall group size. Even though UAVs are considered for tactical, remote monitoring, and surveillance purposes in both indoor and outdoor environments, it is very difficult to achieve autonomous aerial flocking in unknown cluttered environments. Specifically, greater attention is placed to reduce computational complexity for on-board implementation. We demonstrate the efficiency of our algorithm in a real world scenario with the V-REP simulator employing a group of five UAVs.

Decentralized multi-robot information gathering from unknown spatial fields
We present an incremental scalable motion planning algorithm for finding maximally informative trajectories for decentralized mobile robots. These robots are deployed to observe an unknown spatial field, where the informativeness of observations is specified as a density function. Existing works that are typically restricted to discrete domains and synchronous planning often scale poorly depending on the size of the problem. Our goal is to design a distributed control law in continuous domains and an asynchronous communication strategy to guide a team of cooperative robots to visit the most informative locations within a limited mission duration. Our proposed Asynchronous Information Gathering with Bayesian Optimization (AsyncIGBO) algorithm extends ideas from asynchronous Bayesian Optimization (BO) to efficiently sample from a density function. It then combines them with decentralized reactive motion planning techniques to achieve efficient multi-robot information gathering activities. We provide a theoretical justification for our algorithm by deriving an asymptotic no-regret analysis with respect to a known spatial field. Our proposed algorithm is extensively validated through simulation and real-world experiment results with multiple robots.

Reactive symbolic planning and control in dynamic adversarial environments
Satisfying both safety and reachability requirements in dynamic adversarial environments is very challenging, particularly when little or no information about the dynamics and intentions of the adversarial objects is available. Therefore, this article addresses the problem of path planning and control of autonomous vehicles in a dynamic adversarial reach–avoid scenario with two noncooperative vehicles and their competitive objectives: 1) “reaching a target and avoiding the other vehicle” for one of them, called attacker, and 2) “protecting the target and capturing the opponent vehicle” for the other one, called defender. In the proposed solution, first, a discrete version of the problem is formulated and solved using linear temporal logic, temporal games, and $\mu$-calculus to construct winning discrete strategies that guarantee safety and reachability. A comprehensive discussion on the existence, correctness, and complexity analysis of the solution is also provided. Finally, a novel correct-by-design hybrid controller is designed to generate smooth control signals that preserve the satisfaction of safety and reachability.

Hierarchical task and motion planning through deep reinforcement learning
Task and motion planning (TAMP) integrates the generation of high-level tasks in a discrete space and the execution of low-level actions in a continuous space. Such planning integration is susceptible to uncertainties and computationally challenging as low-level actions should be verified for high-level tasks. Therefore, this paper presents a hierarchical task and motion planning method under uncertainties. We utilize Markov Decision Processes (MDPs) to model task and motion planning in a stochastic environment. The motion planner handles motion uncertainty and leverages physical constraints to synthesize an optimal low-level control policy for a single robot to generate motions in continuous action and state spaces. Given the optimal control policy for multiple homogeneous robots, the task planner synthesizes an optimal high-level tasking policy in discrete task and state spaces addressing both task and motion uncertainties. Our optimal tasking and control policies are synthesized through deep reinforcement learning algorithms. The performance of our method is validated in realistic physics-based simulations with two quadrotors transporting objects in a warehouse setting.

DONE