Power system dynamic state estimation: Motivations, definitions, methodologies, and future work
This paper summarizes the technical activities of the Task Force on Power System Dynamic State and Parameter Estimation. This Task Force was established by the IEEE Working Group on State Estimation Algorithms to investigate the added benefits of dynamic state and parameter estimation for the enhancement of the reliability, security, and resilience of electric power systems. The motivations and engineering values of dynamic state estimation (DSE) are discussed in detail. Then, a set of potential applications that will rely on DSE is presented and discussed. Furthermore, a unified framework is proposed to clarify the important concepts related to DSE, forecasting-aided state estimation, tracking state estimation, and static state estimation. An overview of the current progress in DSE and dynamic parameter estimation is provided. The paper also provides future research needs and directions for the power engineering community.

Decentralized Dynamic State Estimation in Power Systems Using Unscented Transformation
This paper proposes a decentralized algorithm for real-time estimation of the dynamic states of a power system. The scheme employs phasor measurement units (PMUs) for the measurement of local signals at each generation unit, and subsequent state estimation using unscented Kalman filtering (UKF). The novelty of the scheme is that the state estimation at one generation unit is independent from the estimation at other units, and therefore the transmission of remote signals to a central estimator is not required. This in turn reduces the complexity of each distributed estimator, and makes the estimation process highly efficient, accurate and easily implementable. The applicability of the proposed algorithm has been thoroughly demonstrated on a representative model.

Benchmark Models for the Analysis and Control of Small-Signal Oscillatory Dynamics in Power Systems
This paper summarizes a set of six benchmark systems for the analysis and control of electromechanical oscillations in power systems, recommended by the IEEE Task Force on Benchmark Systems for Stability Controls of the Power System Dynamic Performance Committee. The benchmark systems were chosen for their tutorial value and particular characteristics leading to control the system design problems relevant to the research community. For each benchmark, the modeling guidelines are provided, along with eigenvalues and time-domain results produced with at least two simulation softwares, and one possible control approach is provided for each system as well. Researchers and practicing engineers are encouraged to use these benchmark systems when assessing new oscillation damping control strategies.

Stability Analysis of Networked Control in Smart Grids
A suitable networked control scheme and its stability analysis framework have been developed for controlling inherent electromechanical oscillatory dynamics observed in power systems. It is assumed that the feedback signals are obtained at locations away from the controller/actuator and transmitted over a communication network with the help of phasor measurement units (PMUs). Within the generic framework of networked control system (NCS), the evolution of power system dynamics and associated control actions through a communication network have been modeled as a hybrid system. The data delivery rate has been modeled as a stochastic process. The closed-loop stability analysis framework has considered the limiting probability of data dropout in computing the stability margin. The contribution is in quantifying allowable data-dropout limit for a specified closed loop performance. The research findings are useful in specifying the requirement of communication infrastructure and protocol for operating future smart grids.

Roles of dynamic state estimation in power system modeling, monitoring and operation
Power system dynamic state estimation (DSE) remains an active research area. This is driven by the absence of accurate models, the increasing availability of fast-sampled, time-synchronized measurements, and the advances in the capability, scalability, and affordability of computing and communications. This paper discusses the advantages of DSE as compared to static state estimation, and the implementation differences between the two, including the measurement configuration, modeling framework and support software features. The important roles of DSE are discussed from modeling, monitoring and operation aspects for today's synchronous machine dominated systems and the future power electronics-interfaced generation systems. Several examples are presented to demonstrate the benefits of DSE on enhancing the operational robustness and resilience of 21st century power system through time critical applications. Future research directions are identified and discussed, paving the way for developing the next generation of energy management systems and novel system monitoring, control and protection tools to achieve better reliability and resiliency.

Report on the 68-bus, 16-machine, 5-area system
The present report refers to a small-signal stability study carried over the 68-Bus, 16-Machine, 5-Area System and validated on a widely known software package: MATLAB-Simulink (ver. 2012b). The 68-bus system is a reduced order equivalent of the inter-connected New England test system (NETS) and New York power system (NYPS), with five geographical regions out of which NETS and NYPS are represented by a group of generators whereas, the power import from each of the three other neighboring areas are approximated by equivalent generator models. This report has the objective to show how the simulation of this system must be done using MATLAB in order to get results that are comparable (and exhibit a good match with respect to the electromechanical modes) with the ones obtained using other commercial software packages and presented on the PES Task Force website on Benchmark Systems for Stability Controls.

Estimating Dynamic Model Parameters for Adaptive Protection and Control in Power System
Summary form only given. This paper presents a new approach in estimating important parameters of power system transient stability model such as inertia constant $H$ and direct axis transient reactance $x_{d}^{prime}$ in real time. It uses a variation of unscented Kalman filter (UKF) on the phasor measurement unit (PMU) data. The accurate estimation of these parameters is very important for assessing the stability and tuning the adaptive protection system on power swing relays. The effectiveness of the method is demonstrated in a simulated data from 16-machine 68-bus system model. The paper also presents the performance comparison between the UKF and EKF method in estimating the parameters. The robustness of method is further validated in the presence of noise that is likely to be in the PMU data in reality.

Dynamic State Estimation for Power System Control and Protection
Dynamic state estimation (DSE) accurately tracks the dynamics of a power system and provides the evolution of the system state in real-time. This paper focuses on the control and protection applications of DSE, comprehensively presenting different facets of control and protection challenges arising in modern power systems. It is demonstrated how these challenges are effectively addressed with DSE-enabled solutions. As precursors to these solutions, reformulation of DSE considering both synchrophasor and sampled value measurements and comprehensive comparisons of DSE and observers have been presented. The usefulness and necessity of DSE based solutions in ensuring system stability, reliable protection and security, and resilience by revamping of control and protection methods are shown through examples, practical applications, and suggestions for further development.

Benchmark Systems for Small Signal Stability Analysis and Control
This report documents the work of the IEEE PES Task Force (TF) on Benchmark Systems for Stability Controls. The following sections present the objectives of the TF, the guidelines used to select the benchmarks, a brief description of each benchmark system so the reader can select the most suitable system for the intended application, the input data and results for each benchmark system, and a set of conclusions. Detailed descriptions of each system are also presented in the Appendices to this report and in the website1 created by this Task Force to share the data and simulation results related to the benchmark systems.

An Abandoned Object Detection System Based on Dual Background Segmentation
An abandoned object detection system is presented and evaluated using benchmark datasets. The detection is based on a simple mathematical model and works efficiently at QVGA resolution at which most CCTV cameras operate. The pre-processing involves a dual-time background subtraction algorithm which dynamically updates two sets of background, one after a very short interval (less than half a second) and the other after a relatively longer duration. The framework of the proposed algorithm is based on the Approximate Median model. An algorithm for tracking of abandoned objects even under occlusion is also proposed. Results show that the system is robust to variations in lighting conditions and the number of people in the scene. In addition, the system is simple and computationally less intensive as it avoids the use of expensive filters while achieving better detection results.

Decentralized Control of Oscillatory Dynamics in Power Systems Using an Extended LQR
This paper proposes a decentralized algorithm for real-time control of oscillatory dynamics in power systems. The algorithm integrates dynamic state estimation (DSE) with an extended linear quadratic regulator (ELQR) for optimal control. The control for one generation unit only requires measurements and parameters for that unit, and hence the control at a unit remains completely independent of other units. The control gains are updated in real-time, therefore the control scheme remains valid for any operating condition. The applicability of the proposed algorithm has been demonstrated on a representative power system model.

Dynamic Estimation and Control of Power Systems
Decentralized nonlinear control for power systems using normal forms and detailed models
This paper proposes a decentralized method for nonlinear control of oscillatory dynamics in power systems. The method is applicable for ensuring both transient stability and small-signal stability. The method uses an optimal control law, which has been derived in the general framework of nonlinear control using normal forms. The model used to derive the control law is the detailed subtransient model of synchronous machines, as recommended by the IEEE. Minimal approximations have been made in either the derivation or the application of the control law. The developed method also requires the application of the dynamic state estimation technique. As the employed control and estimation schemes only need local measurements, the method remains completely decentralized. The method has been demonstrated as an effective tool to prevent blackouts by simulating a major disturbance in a benchmark power system model and its subsequent control using the proposed method.

An extended linear quadratic regulator for LTI systems with exogenous inputs
Rate of Change of Frequency Estimation for Power Systems using Interpolated DFT and Kalman Filter
This paper presents a new method for estimating the rate of change of frequency (RoCoF) of voltage or current signals measured using instrument transformers. The method is demonstrably superior to currently available methods in the literature, in terms of estimation latency and estimation error. The estimation is performed in two steps. In the first step, the analog voltage or current signal obtained from an instrument transformer is statistically processed using interpolated discrete Fourier transform (IDFT) in order to obtain the means and variances of the signal parameters. These means and variances are then given as inputs to the second step, in which Kalman filtering (KF) is used to find the final RoCoF estimate. Accurate mathematical expressions for the means and variances of signal parameters have been derived and used in the second step, which is the main reason behind the superior performance of the method. The applicability of the method has been demonstrated on a benchmark power system model.

Estimation of Inherent Governor Dead-Band and Regulation Using Unscented Kalman Filter
The inclusion of the governor droop and dead-band in dynamic models helps to reproduce the measured frequency response accurately and is a key aspect of model validation. Often, accurate and detailed turbine-governor information are not available for various units in an area control centre. The uncertainty in the droop also arise from the nonlinearity due to the governor valves. The droop and dead-band are required to tune the secondary frequency bias factors, and to determine the primary frequency reserve. Earlier research on droop estimation did not adequately take into account the effect of dead-band and other nonlinearities. In this paper, unscented Kalman filter is used in conjunction with continuously available measurements to estimate the governor droop and the dead-band width. The effectiveness of the approach is demonstrated through simulations.

Decentralized Robust Dynamic State Estimation in Power Systems using Instrument Transformers
This paper proposes a decentralized method for estimation of dynamic states of a power system. The method remains robust to time-synchronization errors and high noise levels in measurements. Robustness of the method has been achieved by incorporating internal angle in the dynamic model used for estimation and by decoupling the estimation process into two stages with continuous updation of measurement-noise variances. Additionally, the proposed estimation method does not need measurements obtained from phasor measurement units; instead, it just requires analog measurements of voltages and currents directly acquired from instrument transformers. This is achieved through statistical signal processing of analog voltages and currents to obtain their magnitudes and frequencies, followed by application of unscented Kalman filtering for nonlinear estimation. The robustness and feasibility of the method have been demonstrated on a benchmark power system model.

Robust Observer Based Methodology for Frequency and Rate of Change of Frequency Estimation in Power Systems
An observer based adaptive detection methodology (ADM) is proposed for estimating frequency and its rate of change (RoCoF) of the voltage and/or current measurements acquired from an instrument transformer. With guaranteed convergence and stability, the proposed methodology effectively neutralizes the effect of the measurement distortions like harmonics, decaying DC components and outliers by adding its counter negative. It is robust to noise statistics, performs well while encountering step changes in amplitude/phase and is demonstrably superior to its precursors as established by test results. A benchmark IEEE NETS/NYPS 16 machine 68 bus power system has been used for performance evaluation of robust ADM against its precursors and scaled laboratory setup based on OP5600 multiprocessors was used for establishing its real-time applicability.

Power System Dynamic State and Parameter Estimation - Transition to Power Electronics-Dominated Clean Energy Systems - IEEE PES Taskforce on Power System Dynamic State and …
An extended linear quadratic regulator and its application for control of power system dynamics
This paper presents a generalized solution to the problem of optimal control of systems having an extra set of exogenous inputs besides control inputs. The solution is derived in the framework of linear quadratic control and it is termed `extended linear quadratic regulator (ELQR)'. The ELQR is applied for control of unstable or poorly damped oscillatory dynamics occurring in a power system and is shown to be significantly more cost effective than the classical power system stabilizer (PSS) based approach.

DONE