Smartphone malware detection: From a survey towards taxonomy
Smartphone malwares are serious threat. Malware detector is the primary tool to protect Smartphones against malwares. The malware detector efficiency is based on the technique it uses. In this paper, we survey the current state of the art of Smartphone malware detection techniques. Those techniques have been classified into a structured taxonomy based on 3 rules. Those rules are inferred and compiled from literature review. The rules are: reference behaviour, analysis approach and malware behaviour representation. According to reference behaviour rule, Smartphone malware detection techniques divided into two main classes: signature-based and anomaly-based. In side these classes, ramifications are then derived according to analysis approach rule and malware behaviour representation rule.

A compute and wait in pow (cw-pow) consensus algorithm for preserving energy consumption
Several trusted tasks use consensus algorithms to solve agreement challenges. Usually, consensus agreements are used to ensure data integrity and reliability in untrusted environments. In many distributed networking fields, the Proof of Work (PoW) consensus algorithm is commonly used. However, the standard PoW mechanism has two main limitations, where the first is the high power consumption and the second is the 51% attack vulnerability. In this paper, we look to improve the PoW consensus protocol by introducing several proof rounds. Any given consensus node should resolve the game of the current round Roundi before participating in the next round Roundi+1. Any node that resolves the game of Roundi can only pass to the next round if a predetermined number of solutions has been found by other nodes. The obtained evaluation results of this technique show significant improvements in terms of energy consumption and robustness against the 51% and Sybil attacks. By fixing the number of processes, we obtained an energy gain rate of 15.63% with five rounds and a gain rate of 19.91% with ten rounds.

Generative versus discriminative classifiers for android anomaly‐based detection system using system calls filtering and abstraction process
Anomaly-based detection techniques have been widely studied in recent years. Most of these efforts have focused to improve the accuracy of these techniques. The poor accuracy performance is caused by two factors: i the data used for the analysis is insufficient and/or unrepresentative of the application behavior, or ii inappropriate algorithms are used to model the behavior of the application. In this paper, we attempt to improve anomaly-based detection techniques by examining these two factors. First, we use system call filtering and abstraction process. This process refines the system call traces. The refined traces are compact and should be more representative of the application main behavior. Second, we use machine learning classifiers to characterize the benign behavior. Generally, there are two main categories of machine learning classifiers: generative classifiers and discriminative classifiers. In their initial training phases, the classifiers build models characterizing the benign behavior. Later on, these models are used to distinguish between different classes of data. They are simply defined by their parameters. The k-means classifier is considered as a representative of the generative classifier category, and the support vector machine classifier as a representative of the discriminative classifier category. The efficiency of these classifiers are reviewed and compared, as well as the impact of the filtering and abstraction process on their performances is evaluated. The experimental results show that the support vector machine model outperforms the k-means model, and the filtering and abstraction process has positive impacts on the performance of both models. Copyright © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Using a distributed deep learning algorithm for analyzing big data in smart cities
PurposeThe purpose of this paper is to propose a distributed deep learning architecture for smart cities in big data systems.Design/methodology/approachWe have proposed an architectural multilayer to describe the distributed deep learning for smart cities in big data systems. The components of our system are Smart city layer, big data layer, and deep learning layer. The Smart city layer responsible for the question of Smart city components, its Internet of things, sensors and effectors, and its integration in the system, big data layer concerns data characteristics 10, and its distribution over the system. The deep learning layer is the model of our system. It is responsible for data analysis.FindingsWe apply our proposed architecture in a Smart environment and Smart energy. 10; In a Smart environment, we study the Toluene forecasting in Madrid Smart city. For Smart energy, we study wind energy foresting in Australia. Our proposed architecture can reduce the time of execution and improve the deep learning model, such as Long Term Short Memory10;.Research limitations/implicationsThis research needs the application of other deep learning models, such as convolution neuronal network and autoencoder.Practical implicationsFindings of the research will be helpful in Smart city architecture. It can provide a clear view into a Smart city, data storage, and data analysis. The 10; Toluene forecasting in a Smart environment can help the decision-maker to ensure environmental safety. The Smart energy of our proposed model can give a clear prediction of power generation.Originality/valueThe findings of this study are expected to contribute valuable information to decision-makers for a better understanding of the key to Smart city architecture. Its relation with data storage, processing, and data analysis.

Enhancing malware detection for Android systems using a system call filtering and abstraction process
Improving anomaly-based malware detection techniques has been widely studied in recent years. Most of these efforts have focused on the dataset available for analysis and/or the algorithms used to distinguish between normal or abnormal behavior. These factors have major impacts on the accuracy performance of the detection techniques as well as on their time and space complexities. In this paper, we revisit a classical anomaly-based malware detection approach (i.e., database of normal behavior) analyzing Android system calls with two conflicting objectives: reducing the time and space complexities of the selected approach without decreasing its accuracy performance. To achieve this goal, we introduce a filtering and abstraction process, which (i) removes irrelevant system calls to describe the main behavior of an Android application and (ii) unifies system calls having the same functionality but different names. This process is used to build a database describing a canonical normal behavior model of Android applications. This model is based on the 200 most popular free Android applications available in the Android market. It represents the last line of defense of an in-depth protection strategy for smartphone systems. The results of our experimentations show that our filtering and abstraction process has positive impacts on the performance and the accuracy of the selected malware detection approach. Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Reconfigurable underwater embedded systems architectures
Underwater sensor networks are bounded by data sensing, transmitting, and forwarding limitations. The transmitting of large volumes of data can require a large amount of time and power. This has led researchers to focus on the new technology of underwater computing systems, in which information is extracted under the water using embedded processors via data mining and/or data compression. In this paper, a set of underwater embedded system (UWES) architectures is developed that can handle different network configurations. These developed architectures have a single processing node and are assumed to be homogenous. An architecture is selected to match a given set of requirements including data rate, processing node capabilities, gathering nodes capabilities, and water depth. Analytical models are developed for each type of architecture, which estimate both end to end delay and power consumption. Simulations that verify the results and evaluate the performance of the architectures are also provided.

Enhancing smartphone malware detection performance by applying machine learning hybrid classifiers
Performance evaluation of multi-pattern matching algorithms on smartphone
Dramatic increase of smartphones malwares has imposed adopting malware detection solution for them. Signature-based technique is widely used in commercial Antivirus and it is based on multi-pattern matching algorithms. In this paper, we discuss several multi-pattern matching algorithms and review their complexities. We implement and evaluate their performance on limited resources environment, which is Android Smartphone. We study Android memory management and identify the available memory. We compare the available memory with required by each algorithm. We classify algorithms according to their memory budgets.

Impact of dataset representation on smartphone malware detection performance
Development of undergraduate interdisciplinary cybersecurity program: A literature survey
and machine

Anomaly detection system using system calls for android smartphone system
A smartphone is a mobile phone that provides advanced functions compared to traditional mobile phones. Smartphone systems have evolved considerably in terms of their capacity and functionality. Therefore, it is excessively used in personal and business life. Users of smartphone systems store all kinds of personal, business and confidential information on their systems, such as credit card and bank account information. In view of this popularity and storing confidential information, the cyber criminals and malware developers have set their eyes on the smartphone systems. Recent malware analysis reports show scared information about the serious threats that face smartphone systems. Thus, their protection is very important. 
 
Smartphone malwares detection techniques have been actively studied. Broadly, the two main techniques are: the signature-based techniques and the anomaly-based techniques. Each technique has its own advantages and drawbacks. In this Thesis, we are mainly interested in anomaly detection techniques. These techniques are useful for unknown malwares and variants of known ones. However, they still need more study and investigation to improve the malware detection accuracy and to consume as less resources as possible. 
 
This Thesis makes contributions on three levels to improve the efficiency, accuracy and adaptability of anomaly-based techniques for smartphone system based on Android operating system. 
 
The first contribution presents a study and review of the existing malware detection techniques. This survey provides a comprehensive classification of the studied techniques according to well defined criteria. 
 
The second contribution is based upon the dataset level and it is twofold. Firstly, we introduce dataset feature vector representation as a new factor that can improve the efficiency and the accuracy of malware detection solution. Secondly, we introduce filtering and abstraction process that refines the system call traces. The refined traces are much more compact and are closer to the main application behavior. 
 
The third contribution of this Thesis is on the benign behavior model level and it is biflod. In the first place, we build canonical database representing generic benign behavior from limited number of representative applications. In the second place, instead of using single machine learning classifier to model the benign behavior, we use hybrid machine learning classifier.

Using machine learning for raspberry pi network intrusion detection
Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) mesh network is gaining popularity in the IoT sector due to its simple network configuration, network extension and security features. Device security is a concern for IoT systems and is crucial in detecting device attacks. This paper proposes a machine learning based intrusion detection system (IDS) targeted for the BLE mesh networks. The setup consists of nine ESP32 BLE mesh devices and one raspberry pi. The IDS detects known threats, such as black hole attacks and grey hole attacks, in the BLE mesh network using a single watchdog node. The watchdog setup continuously sends network layer data to the Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT) broker. And the database stores the BLE mesh packets with the timestamp. The target attack node uses a push button to switch between attacks for evaluating IDS. The system uses machine learning algorithms to detect network attacks. The project analyses the performance of attack detection when the location of the watchdog is changed. The machine learning model classifies legitimate, grey hole attack and black hole attack. Finally, a web application shows the BLE mesh network detection status.

Performance Evaluation of Machine-Learning Models for Self-Healing in 5G Networks
The 5G self-organizing network is a viable solution to the problem of increasing user-connectivity, data rates, and network complexity. This paper proposes a SON solution that uses machine learning for anomaly detection in order to meet user demands. Three different supervised ML algorithms are used for anomaly detection to see which provides the most efficient and accurate results. The various algorithms used key performance indicators (KPIs) to determine whether a base station is healthy, congested, or failing. In order to achieve unbiased results, large datasets composed of multiple simulated network scenarios were preprocessed and partitioned for training and testing. The results show that state vector machine algorithm can accurately detect the status of a base station at exponentially lower processing times than the other ML algorithms. This algorithm was most efficient when larger datasets were used to create the model.

Interdisciplinary Cybersecurity Projects Experience: Developing a Market-ready Workforce
The increasing advancement in Internet of Things (IoT) and Industry 4.0 inspires more connectivity of vital infrastructure to the cloud. Securing our infrastructure digital and control systems is currently a crucial demand in a cyber-world characterized by continuous cybersecurity attacks. Preparing qualified students to satisfy the current and future work force requirement in cybersecurity is deemed essential. One of the main cybersecurity domain challenges is its interdisciplinary nature that involves scientists, engineers, technologists, and business teams. It is almost impossible in real life to mitigate threats and defend against attacks without assembling teams and qualified team members with skills in all the aforementioned disciplines. This paper aims at presenting the plan and procedures required for creating an project based interdisciplinary course at cybersecurity of frontier technologies between the College of Engineering, College of Science, and College of Business Administration. The course objective is to bring students from the three disciplines into a multidisciplinary experience that aids students at replicating real life projects. Instructors from all three disciplines guide the students during the course work and supervise the project activities. The fifteen-week course can adopt different types of cybersecurity systems and provide a framework for students’ collaboration on a practical project. The framework consists of four modules divided between the three disciplines: 1) project scope, system integration, and teamwork incorporation; 2) system engineering, cybersecurity design, and application development; 3) system cybersecurity algorithms, data collection, organization, and analytics; 4) system business planning, cybersecurity applications operations implementation, and maintenance. The paper also presents an example for an IoT based project to apply the framework and show the projected course model in developing the IoT project.

Security and Usability Testing of Smartphone Security (S2) Lab
MACHINE LEARNING METHOD FOR CYBER SECURITY INTRUSION DETECTION FOR INDUSTRIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS (ICSS)
Machine Learning (ML)-based Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) is an effective technology to automatically detect cyber attacks in the Internet of Things (IoT) dependent Industrial Control Systems (ICS). It is faster, more efficient, and can detect attacks without human intervention. However, ML-based IDSs have introduced another security threat called Adversarial Machine Learning (AML). An AML attack may cause severe industrial infrastructural and production damage resulting in substantial financial loss. This paper presents an exploratory analysis of initiating an AML attack using adversarial samples created using a Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM). The research presented in this paper has been conducted from a dataset generated from a full-fledged singular module of a power distribution industry controlled by IoT-enabled ICSs. We explored the AML attack on Gradient Boosting (GB) and Iterative Dichotomiser 3 (ID3) model and discovered the average classification accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-scores are 87%, 88%, 87.5%, and 87%, respectively. The AML attack reduces the average precision, recall, and F1-score by 20.5%, 20.5%, and 22.5%, respectively, when 50% perturbations are added to 10% samples.

DONE