Registration of 3D point clouds and meshes: a survey from rigid to nonrigid
Three-dimensional surface registration transforms multiple three-dimensional data sets into the same coordinate system so as to align overlapping components of these sets. Recent surveys have covered different aspects of either rigid or nonrigid registration, but seldom discuss them as a whole. Our study serves two purposes: 1) To give a comprehensive survey of both types of registration, focusing on three-dimensional point clouds and meshes and 2) to provide a better understanding of registration from the perspective of data fitting. Registration is closely related to data fitting in which it comprises three core interwoven components: model selection, correspondences and constraints, and optimization. Study of these components 1) provides a basis for comparison of the novelties of different techniques, 2) reveals the similarity of rigid and nonrigid registration in terms of problem representations, and 3) shows how overfitting arises in nonrigid registration and the reasons for increasing interest in intrinsic techniques. We further summarize some practical issues of registration which include initializations and evaluations, and discuss some of our own observations, insights and foreseeable research trends.

Facial dynamics as indicators of trustworthiness and cooperative behavior.
Detecting cooperative partners in situations that have financial stakes is crucial to successful social exchange. The authors tested whether humans are sensitive to subtle facial dynamics of counterparts when deciding whether to trust and cooperate. Participants played a 2-person trust game before which the facial dynamics of the other player were manipulated using brief (<6 s) but highly realistic facial animations. Results showed that facial dynamics significantly influenced participants' (a) choice of with whom to play the game and (b) decisions to cooperate. It was also found that inferences about the other player's trustworthiness mediated these effects of facial dynamics on cooperative behavior.

Incremental eigenanalysis for classification.
Eigenspace models are a convenient way to represent sets of observations with widespread applications, including classification. In this paper we describe a new constructive method for incrementally adding observations to an eigenspace model. Our contribution is to explicitly account for a change in origin as well as a change in the number of eigenvectors needed in the basis set. No other method we have seen considers change of origin, yet both are needed if an eigenspace model is to be used for classification purposes. We empirically compare our incremental method with two alternatives from the literature and show our method is the more useful for classification because it computes the smaller eigenspace model representing the observations.

Merging and splitting eigenspace models
We present new deterministic methods that, given two eigenspace models-each representing a set of n-dimensional observations-will: 1) merge the models to yield a representation of the union of the sets and 2) split one model from another to represent the difference between the sets. As this is done, we accurately keep track of the mean. Here, we give a theoretical derivation of the methods, empirical results relating to the efficiency and accuracy of the techniques, and three general applications, including the construction of Gaussian mixture models that are dynamically updateable.

Faithful least-squares fitting of spheres, cylinders, cones and tori for reliable segmentation
Robust segmentation of primitives from range data in the presence of geometric degeneracy
This paper addresses a common problem in the segmentation of range images. We present methods for the least-squares fitting of spheres, cylinders, cones, and tori to 3D point data, and their application within a segmentation framework. Least-squares fitting of surfaces other than planes, even of simple geometric type, has rarely been studied. Our main application areas of this research are reverse engineering of solid models from depth-maps and automated 3D inspection where reliable extraction of these surfaces is essential. Our fitting method has the particular advantage of being robust in the presence of geometric degeneracy, i.e., as the principal curvatures of the surfaces being fitted decrease, the results returned naturally become closer and closer to those surfaces of "simpler type", i.e., planes, cylinders, cones, or spheres, which best describe the data. Many other methods diverge because, in such cases, various parameters or their combination become infinite.

An expert system for multi-criteria decision making using Dempster Shafer theory
On the extended depth of focus algorithms for bright field microscopy
Selection of the optimal parameter value for the Isomap algorithm
Robust segmentation of intraretinal layers in the normal human fovea using a novel statistical model based on texture and shape analysis
A novel statistical model based on texture and shape for fully automatic intraretinal layer segmentation of normal retinal tomograms obtained by a commercial 800nm optical coherence tomography (OCT) system is developed. While existing algorithms often fail dramatically due to strong speckle noise, non-optimal imaging conditions, shadows and other artefacts, the novel algorithm's accuracy only slowly deteriorates when progressively increasing segmentation task difficulty. Evaluation against a large set of manual segmentations shows unprecedented robustness, even in the presence of additional strong speckle noise, with dynamic range tested down to 12dB, enabling segmentation of almost all intraretinal layers in cases previously inaccessible to the existing algorithms. For the first time, an error measure is computed from a large, representative manually segmented data set (466 B-scans from 17 eyes, segmented twice by different operators) and compared to the automatic segmentation with a difference of only 2.6% against the inter-observer variability.

A Hierarchical Model of Dynamics for Tracking People with a Single Video Camera.
We propose a novel hierarchical model of human dynamics for view independent tracking of the human body in monocular video sequences. The model is trained using real data from a collection of people. Kinematics are encoded using Hierarchical Principal Component Analysis, and dynamics are encoded using Hidden Markov Models. The top of the hierarchy contains information about the whole body. The lower levels of the hierarchy contain more detailed information about possible poses of some subpart of the body. When tracking, the lower levels of the hierarchy are shown to improve accuracy. In this article we describe our model and present experiments that show we can recover 3D skeletons from 2D images in a view independent manner, and also track people the system was not trained on.

Computer vision, models and inspection
The main focus of this book is on the uses of computer vision for inspection and model based matching. It also provides a short, self contained introductory course on computer vision. The authors describe various state-of-the-art approaches to probems and then set forth their proposed approach to matching and inspection. They deal primarily with 3-D vision but also discuss 2-D vision strategies when relevant.The book is suitable for researchers, final year undergraduates and graduate students. Useful review questions at the end of each chapter allow this book to be used for self-study.

Detecting violent and abnormal crowd activity using temporal analysis of grey level co-occurrence matrix (GLCM)-based texture measures
The severity of sustained injury resulting from assault-related violence can be minimised by reducing detection time. However, it has been shown that human operators perform poorly at detecting events found in video footage when presented with simultaneous feeds. We utilise computer vision techniques to develop an automated method of abnormal crowd detection that can aid a human operator in the detection of violent behaviour. We observed that behaviour in city centre environments often occurs in crowded areas, resulting in individual actions being occluded by other crowd members. We propose a real-time descrip-tor that models crowd dynamics by encoding changes in crowd texture using temporal summaries of grey level co-occurrence matrix features. We introduce a measure of inter-frame uniformity and demonstrate that the appearance of violent behaviour changes in a less uniform manner when compared to other types of crowd behaviour. Our proposed method is computationally cheap and offers real-time description. Evaluating our method using a privately held CCTV dataset and the publicly available Violent Flows, UCF Web Abnormality and UMN Abnormal Crowd datasets, we report a receiver operating characteristic score of 0.9782, 0.9403, 0.8218 and 0.9956, respectively.

Automated choroidal segmentation of 1060 nm OCT in healthy and pathologic eyes using a statistical model
A two stage statistical model based on texture and shape for fully automatic choroidal segmentation of normal and pathologic eyes obtained by a 1060 nm optical coherence tomography (OCT) system is developed. A novel dynamic programming approach is implemented to determine location of the retinal pigment epithelium/ Bruch’s membrane /choriocapillaris (RBC) boundary. The choroid–sclera interface (CSI) is segmented using a statistical model. The algorithm is robust even in presence of speckle noise, low signal (thick choroid), retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) detachments and atrophy, drusen, shadowing and other artifacts. Evaluation against a set of 871 manually segmented cross-sectional scans from 12 eyes achieves an average error rate of 13%, computed per tomogram as a ratio of incorrectly classified pixels and the total layer surface. For the first time a fully automatic choroidal segmentation algorithm is successfully applied to a wide range of clinical volumetric OCT data.

Effects of dynamic attributes of smiles in human and synthetic faces: A simulated job interview setting
A pitfall in the reconstruction of fibre ODFs using spherical deconvolution of diffusion MRI data
Adding and subtracting eigenspaces with eigenvalue decomposition and singular value decomposition
Data reduction for reverse engineering
Reverse engineering is outlined and the significance of data reduction is pointed out. Two typical methods for data reduction are then introduced. A new method based on the average distance between points is proposed and an algorithm presented. Finally a brief evaluation on the method is made.

Data reduction forreverse engineering
This research presents a framework that aims to capture and model streamlined design variables in multidisciplinary engineering systems, particularly when uncertainties are present. In multidisciplinary domains, there may be correlated design variables that are surplus, leading to data redundancy and potentially affecting the prediction of system responses. To address this issue, the framework utilizes data reduction techniques based on the correlation degree of random design variables, which are evaluated using an entropybased correlation coefficient (e). By doing so, the framework enables a more precise prediction of system responses. The data reduction process is dependent on the value of e and employs two distinct approaches. For strong correlations (high e values), feature extraction techniques such as Principal Component Analysis and the Auto-encoder algorithm are applied. On the other hand, for weak correlations, feature selection is implemented using the Independent Features Test. To effectively predict the complex responses of multidisciplinary systems while enhancing computational efficiency, the framework integrates an Artificial Neural Network. The efficacy of the proposed framework is demonstrated through examples, including a cantilever beam with randomly distributed materials and an electro-mechanical stretchable patch antenna.

Choosing consistent constraints for beautification of reverse engineered geometric models
DONE