An empirical study on the susceptibility to social engineering in social networking sites: the case of Facebook
A survey and classification of security and privacy research in smart healthcare systems
Advances in wireless technology have resulted in the development of smart healthcare systems (SHSs). In SHS, sensors, wearables, and devices monitor a patient’s vital parameters. These parameters are transmitted to the designated emergency services or the trusted healthcare professionals for evaluation. The security and privacy of vitals during collection and transmission are the major concerns. Therefore, it is essential to discuss security techniques, concerns, and requirements in SHS. We review the methodologies, objectives, platforms, and techniques used in SHS. First, we present a novel classification scheme for SHS that ranks their methodologies within their applicable domains. Second, we create a classification scheme for the literature concerning SHS. Third, we examine the most important security attacks in SHS and the countermeasures proposed in this paper. Finally, we identify the open-research challenges in security and privacy of SHS and provide directions for future research.

Software vulnerability markets: Discoverers and buyers
Some of the key aspects of vulnerability—discovery, dissemination, and disclosure—have received some attention recently. However, the role of interaction among the vulnerability discoverers and vulnerability acquirers has not yet been adequately addressed. Our study suggests that a major percentage of discoverers, a majority in some cases, are unaffiliated with the software developers and thus are free to disseminate the vulnerabilities they discover in any way they like. As a result, multiple vulnerability markets have emerged. In some of these markets, the exchange is regulated, but in others, there is little or no regulation. In recent vulnerability discovery literature, the vulnerability discoverers have remained anonymous individuals. Although there has been an attempt to model the level of their efforts, information regarding their identities, modes of operation, and what they are doing with the discovered vulnerabilities has not been explored. Reports of buying and selling of the vulnerabilities are now appearing in the press; however, the existence of such markets requires validation, and the natures of the markets need to be analyzed. To address this need, we have attempted to collect detailed information. We have identified the most prolific vulnerability discoverers throughout the past decade and examined their motivation and methods. A large percentage of these discoverers are located in Eastern and Western Europe and in the Far East. We have contacted several of them in order to collect firsthand information regarding their techniques, motivations, and involvement in the vulnerability markets. We examine why many of the discoverers appear to retire after a highly successful vulnerability-finding career. The paper identifies the actual vulnerability markets, rather than the hypothetical ideal markets that are often examined. The emergence of worldwide government agencies as vulnerability buyers has significant implications. We discuss potential factors that can impact the risk to society and the need for detailed exploration. Keywords—Risk management, software security, vulnerability discoverers, vulnerability markets.

Social engineering in social networking sites: Affect-based model
While social engineering represents a real and ominous threat to many organizations, companies, governments, and individuals, social networking sites (SNSs) have been identified as some of the most common means of social engineering attacks. Due to factors that reduce users' ability to detect social engineering tricks and increase attackers' ability to launch them, SNSs seem to be perfect breeding grounds for exploiting people's vulnerabilities and the weakest link in security. This work will contribute to the social engineering knowledge base by identifying different entities and sub-entities that affect social-engineering-based attacks in SNSs. Moreover, this paper includes an intensive and comprehensive overview of different aspects of social engineering threats in SNSs.

Smart Societies, Infrastructure, Technologies and Applications: First International Conference, SCITA 2017, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, November 27–29, 2017, Proceedings
Social engineering in social networking sites: the art of impersonation
Social networking sites (SNSs), with their large number of users and large information base, seem to be the perfect breeding ground for exploiting the vulnerabilities of people, who are considered the weakest link in security. Deceiving, persuading, or influencing people to provide information or to perform an action that will benefit the attacker is known as "social engineering." Fraudulent and deceptive people use social engineering traps and tactics through SNSs to trick users into obeying them, accepting threats, and falling victim to various crimes such as phishing, sexual abuse, financial abuse, identity theft, and physical crime. Although organizations, researchers, and practitioners recognize the serious risks of social engineering, there is a severe lack of understanding and control of such threats. This may be partly due to the complexity of human behaviors in approaching, accepting, and failing to recognize social engineering tricks. This research aims to investigate the impact of source characteristics on users' susceptibility to social engineering victimization in SNSs, particularly Facebook. Using grounded theory method, we develop a model that explains what and how source characteristics influence Facebook users to judge the attacker as credible.

Location privacy in smart cities era
Social engineering in social networking sites: Phase-based and source-based models
Social networking sites (SNSs), with their large numbers of users and large information base, seem to be perfect breeding grounds for exploiting the vulnerabilities of people, the weakest link in security. Deceiving, persuading, or influencing people to provide information or to perform an action that will benefit the attacker is known as “social engineering.” While technology-based security has been addressed by research and may be well understood, social engineering is more challenging to understand and manage, especially in new environments such as SNSs, owing to some factors of SNSs that reduce the ability of users to detect the attack and increase the ability of attackers to launch it. This work will contribute to the knowledge of social engineering by presenting the first two conceptual models of social engineering attacks in SNSs. Phase-based and source-based models are presented, along with an intensive and comprehensive overview of different aspects of social engineering threats in SNSs.

SOCIAL  ENGINEERING IN SOCIAL NETWORKING SITES: HOW GOOD BECOMES EVIL
