Virtual organization
PurposeThis paper investigates how global talent management processes are adopted and implemented in a virtual organization to successfully address the challenges of global work arrangements and the sustainable human and social outcomes that can be achieved.Design/methodology/approachAdopting a single, exploratory and critical case study methodology, this paper analyzes a global distributed company, Automattic Inc., to provide in-depth and rich insights on successful business process management in the human resources (HR) domain.FindingsThe findings offer some exemplary and valuable lessons in sustainable human resource management for firms in all sectors on how to embrace global talent management in a more creative and sustainable way – and the benefits in terms of efficiency and effectiveness that can be derived – by identifying talent through auditions, recruiting by inspiring others to apply, developing talent by sharing the value of learning and retaining talent by having fun.Originality/valueThe study contributes a more rounded understanding of successful business process management in the HR domain. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this is particularly relevant and timely for all organizations (traditional or virtual) venturing into successful global work arrangements.

A history of graph entropy measures

Entropy and the complexity of graphs: I. An index of the relative complexity of a graph

Virtual organization: A vision of management in the information age
This article is an assessment of virtual organization, a new paradigm of organization and management. Like most new ideas, virtual organization is not entirely new—some of its components are recogn...

The conquest of will: Information processing in human affairs

Entropy and the complexity of graphs revisited
This paper presents a taxonomy and overview of approaches to the measurement of graph and network complexity. The taxonomy distinguishes between deterministic (e.g., Kolmogorov complexity) and probabilistic approaches with a view to placing entropy-based probabilistic measurement in context. Entropy-based measurement is the main focus of the paper. Relationships between the different entropy functions used to measure complexity are examined; and intrinsic (e.g., classical measures) and extrinsic (e.g., Korner entropy) variants of entropy-based models are discussed in some detail.

Social dimensions of office automation

Virtual organization: Toward a theory of societal transformation stimulated by information technology
Mowshowitz, Abbe. Virtual Organization: Toward a Theory of Societal Transformation Stimulated by Information Technology. Westport, CT: Quorum Books (Greenwood Publishing Group), 2002.

On the theory of virtual organization
Virtual organization is a way of structuring and managing goal-oriented activities. This innovative approach to organization is based on a categorical distinction between the requirements of a task and the elements capable of satisfying them. The distinction supports dynamic switching between satisfiers for the same requirement. Switching, used properly and systematically, can yield dramatic improvements in task performance. Although conceivable without computer communications, virtual organization would not be practicable without the technology; and the concept itself is closely related to constructs such as virtual memory and virtual reality. This paper is intended as a contribution to the development of a theory of virtual organization. The focus is on the nature and inner workings of this innovative approach to organization; social consequences are not considered here. Using the framework presented in an earlier article by the author, the definition, applicability, and socio-technical foundations of virtual organization are elaborated. © 1997 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Cospectral graphs and digraphs
Introduction At a meeting of the American Mathematical Society, one of us hazarded a conjecture that the characteristic polynomial of the adjacency matrix of a graph characterizes the graph, that is, that two graphs are isomorphic if and only if the characteristic polynomials of their adjacency matrices are the same. The conjecture was promptly shot down by a member of the audience (R. C. Bose), who produced a counter-example. In fact, it was already a matter of public record that the conjecture was not true, since Collatz and Sinogowitz [1] had displayed two different trees with 8 nodes having the same characteristic polynomial. In what follows we give an account of some recent computer investigations of the smallest graphs and digraphs of various kinds whose adjacency matrices have the same characteristic polynomial, in order to illuminate the extent to which the characteristic polynomial can be used to characterize a graph.

Assessing bias in search engines

The switching principle in virtual organization
The paper describes a management model for network service provisioning in which a service provider (SP) may maintain multiple protocol mechanisms to support its clientele. Client applications are presented with an abstract interface to these protocol mechanisms, through which service obligations may be prescribed. The management functions of SP track the changes and/or outages in network infrastructure resources in a highly dynamic setting, so that the service provisioning can be made resource-optimal. The management functions are based on a modular decomposition principle, which we refer to as 'virtual organization' of protocol modules. In this paradigm, a service may be viewed as provided by multiple protocol modules, with the SP selecting one of these modules and instantiating it with appropriate parameters to meet the service obligations. The model allows dynamic switching from one protocol module to another, based on a notion of cost associated with the infrastructure resource usage for a given level of service provisioning. The paper provides the functional mechanisms to realize the switching from one protocol to another for a client-transparent service provisioning. These mechanisms are based on our management-oriented studies of different types of information networks (such as content distribution networks and QoS-controlled data connections). Our model of service management offers a methodology for SPs to achieve cost-effectiveness for their service offerings.

Entropy and the complexity of graphs: II. The information content of digraphs and infinite graphs

A dynamic distributed federated database
—The cost of query evaluation in a Dynamic Distributed Federated Databases (DDFD) depends on the topology connecting the database nodes together. Different topologies provide opportunities to adopt a variety of query optimisation strategies and topology also influences the efficiency of these strategies. We describe a number of strategies to optimise join queries and then derive cost estimation formulae. We use these to visualize and explore the performance of join queries in different distributed topologies. We consider three candidate topologies; a random preferential attachment network and two hypercube based models. The costs of maintaining these topologies are also formulated and compared. Costs formulas are defined at a coarse grained level, using a small number of parameters and derive only the dominant or average behaviours of the queries and topologies considered. This approach is intended to provide insights to likely optimisation candidates, leading to further refinement of the models. We discover that query delegation to well connected hub nodes is beneficial in scale free networks and that knowing the location of the data is beneficial in all topologies. We ascertain that a semi-join strategy can be beneficial in distributed topologies when the join attributes are small, there is repetition of join attributes or the join result in s a small number of results. We show that the cost of scaling a network is better in the preferential attachment network, indicating that a hypercube is more suitable for smaller, stable networks or where the rate of queries is high.

Bias on the Web
